hey team welcome to this complete course
on Docker and containers my goal with
this course is for it to be the most
efficient way for you to ramp up on your
Docker and container skills starting
from the basics and progressing through
to intermediate and advanced concepts by
the end of the course you'll have the
Knowledge and Skills to be productive
within a team using containers for both
development and deployment of their
applications you'll understand why you
would want to use containers as well as
how to integrate them seamlessly into
your own workflow this course is split
between theory and practice for each
section I'll cover the concepts that you
need to know using helpful visuals and
diagrams before diving into our code
editor and solidifying that knowledge
with real world examples
I've provided a companion GitHub repo
Linked In the description containing all
of the code and configuration that will
be shown throughout the course
feel free to clone or Fork the repo to
follow along as we go
before diving in I do want to highlight
a couple of prerequisites that will help
you get the most out of this course as
the image shows it can be tempting to
jump straight into learning about
containers and skipping some of the
foundational Concepts that they build
upon
I'll do my best to explain everything in
such a way that even an absolute
beginner would understand but if you
have some familiarity with web
application development and how all the
different components fit together that
will be helpful and make it easier to
understand what aspects are container
specific and what aspects are just
General application architecture
concerns
also having some understanding of Basics
Linux shell commands will be useful as
will use such commands throughout the
course
if you don't have these I think you can
still get value from the course but some
things that I do or say might not make
sense so it could be worthwhile to go
and brush up on those topics first
I've broken down the course into the
following learning modules each building
progressively upon the last I provided
timestamps in the description to make it
easy to jump between sections if you're
already familiar with the topic or if
you plan to revisit this video and watch
it across multiple sessions
in the first portion of the course
sections one through four will explore
why containers exist in the first place
the problems that they solve and the
underlying Linux kernel features that
make Docker and containers possible
we'll also install and configure the
docker desktop application and get our
first hands-on experience running some
containers
for the remainder of the course we'll be
focused on building out and
containerizing our own web application
from development all the way through to
deploying it to the cloud this is where
the rubber meets the road and you'll
learn exactly how software companies use
Docker throughout the application
development lifecycle
so what is this demo application we're
working with I'll go into it in much
more detail during Section 5 and
throughout the rest of the course but in
summary it's a minimal three-tier web
application meaning it has a front end
in this case built out using react an
API layer we actually have two
implementation of this one in node.js
and one at go Lang to highlight how
different languages are handled with
containers and finally a postgres
database each service is designed to be
as simple as possible while still
showcasing how they all fit together
within a real world application when we
get to the deployment section of the
course we'll learn how to deploy our
containerized application to the cloud
within the course I'll be using Docker
swarm which is container orchestrator
built into Docker and I've also filmed
two bonus videos to highlight additional
methods of deploying containers one
using Railway and another using
kubernetes these are separate from the
course and information about where you
can find them can be found in the
description
this should give you a taste of the
variety of options that we have for
deploying containerized applications
before we jump into the course content I
want to pause for a moment to thank the
sponsor of this video Shipyard because
of their generous support I can provide
this course to you completely free of
charge I'm excited about them as a
sponsor because Shipyard is highly
relevant to everyone working in the
container World their platform offers
the easiest way to generate on-demand
ephemeral environments in other words
automatically generating fully
functional isolated environments for
every pull request you connect your
GitHub repo add a couple of lines of
code to your configuration files and you
can have test environments running in
just a few minutes
later in the course I'll demonstrate how
to use the shipyard platform with the
course sample application
as a bonus for all the students of this
course the team at Shipyard has created
an exclusive coupon code for you the
first 300 people to create a shipyard
account and use the promo code devops
directive we'll get 30 extra free days
on either the startup or business tier
plans links and instructions are in the
description below
you should go check out the shipyard
platform and consider how it can help
your teams deliver better software
faster
without further Ado let's get into the
course
now in this first section of the course
I really want to ground our
understanding of why containers exist
and why a product like Docker has been
so successful we're going to start with
kind of the motivation and then we'll
walk through the history of different
virtualization Technologies from bare
metal to Virtual machines to containers
and try to understand how that Evolution
has occurred and why containers have
become the dominant kind of development
and deployment mechanism for software
applications today and this meme on the
right is one that I've seen shared a
number of times
it's this idea that I'm building a
software application I get it running
locally but then something goes wrong in
the process of Translating that local
system to the production one and so one
thing that Docker does really well is
help to make it such that our local
environment is as close as possible to
the production environment that we're
going to deploy to and so that's what
this is this is hinting at is we're
taking that local environment and just
shipping it directly to production
now there's two main aspects of the
software development life cycle that
Docker and containers are trying to
address uh the first one is on the
development side so up front as we're
building this application maybe
historically there was this long process
you join a company and they tell you
here's your new laptop uh go ahead and
install all these things run these
scripts and get everything configured
and now you can run the application
locally and do your development it was
very complex lots of opportunity for
human error
and so then Docker came along and Now
setting up your development environment
is as easy as running a single command
Docker compose up we're going to go more
into what that is doing later in the
course but it took this whole complex
sequence of of events that you needed to
run and turn that into a singular
system and command that everyone can run
and be up and running in the first hour
of their their day
and so making all of the different
combinations of Windows and Mac and
Linux development environments all
compatible uh is one thing that Docker
does really well and containers in
general do really well
and so that's kind of the the
development side of things on the
deployment side of things uh similarly
let's say you would build your
application and then you need to to put
it onto some server somewhere to run it
and there was this uh idea that there's
a number of steps that need to happen
let's say okay we need to create a
server running Ubuntu then we're going
to run some configuration software like
ansible to get all the dependencies
configured and then finally we're going
to copy our application code onto the
server and run it with these
configuration options again lots of
steps lots of complexity and much harder
to ensure that it's going to be right
every single time
what containers do is they bring a
single standardized package such that as
long as my server has a container
runtime and there's a number of those
available Docker provides one but
there's a number out there
all you need to do is take this standard
container image and run it with these
specific options and that's it so now
instead of worrying about the underlying
operating system and the underlying
dependencies as long as we have our
system and a container runtime and our
container image we can run it and get
repeatably reliable results over and
over and so these two aspects are really
why containers exist and you can see how
much simpler it gets when we use
containers going from this historical
system with lots of steps and potential
for error down to a much more simplified
unified approach using a system like
container and like docker
and so that hints at what a container is
I've talked about kind of the
standardized package
but from the docker website a Docker
container image is a lightweight
Standalone executable package of
software that includes everything needed
to run an application so you can think
of it as this box that contains the
underlying sort of os dependencies let's
say runtime dependency so if I was
writing an app in Python it would have
the python runtime with the version that
is needed it would have any of the
Python libraries that I'm using so maybe
I'm using SQL Alchemy to talk to a
database or fast API to build out an API
and then it's also going to have my
application code so the specific
application code that I'm writing all of
that gets bundled into this container
image
and then the beauty is that we have the
standard interface and can run multiple
copies of it so let's say I need two
copies of this application I can take
that image with a container runtime and
run a container
run two copies run three copies Etc and
so I've used the term container and
container image it's important to know
the difference there a container image
is this artifact that has all of the all
of these dependencies within it a
container is what you run from that
image so you take an image and if you
think of object oriented programming a
container image is like the class and
then the container itself that you're
actually running is like an instance of
that class an instantiation of that
class
and so a container allows us to have the
standardized packaging that we can then
create one or more copies of and those
copies are going to be the same every
single time
so far I've been using the term Docker
container but I want at this point to
call out what is known as the oci or the
open container initiative and
effectively there were a few early
players including Docker building out
the early implementations of containers
and as they became more popular
companies realized that rather than
having a whole bunch of slightly
different but similar things that we're
calling containers it would make much
more sense to come together and create
one standard that can be used across
different implementations
that's exactly what the contain the open
container initiative is a number of
companies including Docker Google VMware
Microsoft Dell IBM Oracle the list goes
on came together and created open
industry standards around what a
container is and how it should be run
and so there's three primary
specifications that the oci defines the
runtime specification the image
specification and the distribution
specification so the image specification
defines what should be included in the
image in terms of metadata and the
format that it should contain so a
serializable file system the runtime
specification defines how you would take
an image that adheres to that image
specification and run it in a container
and then the distribution specification
talks about how those images should be
distributed so think about Registries
and pushing and pulling images and so
these three things together make up the
open container initiative and Docker has
a specific implementation of this
standard
so when I talk about Docker images or
Docker container images what I'm
referring to specifically is the docker
implementation of this oci specification
if Docker is the only container tool
that you're using it's not all that
important to know this I wanted to
provide this context in case you start
using other tools and know that there is
this standard format that can be shared
across different Tooling in the
ecosystem now let's walk back in time a
little while and understand how we got
to this idea of containers
hopefully from my description of the
motivation you understand why containers
are useful but it's I think it's also
important to understand the history and
the context of how we got to where we
are today and so before there were
containers before there were even
virtual machines uh we just had
computers uh we now call this bare metal
Computing so if you're running your
applications directly on the hardware
system itself another term for that is
bare metal but back long enough ago this
was just called Computing right so in
this case you have your your physical
host your server
the physical Hardware layer at the
bottom you've installed whatever
operating system you want on top of it
then you've installed whatever binaries
and libraries are necessary to run your
application and then you would have your
application one or more applications
installed directly onto this host
machine
now what are some challenges with this
setup first of all you can see that
shared layer of binaries and libraries
it's shared across both of those
applications and so if your applications
for example need different versions of
the same dependency or have some
dependencies that are somehow
incompatible with each other now we've
got we've gotten ourselves into what is
known as dependency hell so we somehow
need to either modify our applications
such that the dependencies are not
compatible or figure out a way to carve
up the system such that we can have both
versions of the the libraries available
doing things like setting your your path
environment variables differently for
the different processes Etc
and so that can be quite a challenge you
also because of this dependency
management challenge you're more likely
to have less fewer applications on each
host machine and so it makes it harder
and harder to achieve High utilization
so let's say application one takes one
CPU core application two also takes one
CPU core but we have this server-based
system that has 64 cores it can be very
hard to sort of utilize that compute
capacity effectively because of the
challenges associated with managing
dependencies for for applications
you also now if you are installing
multiple applications onto the system if
you ever have an issue with one of those
applications or do something that will
mess up some underlying dependency now
you have this large blast radius meaning
changes or or issues with one
application can directly impact the
performance of another application
running on that same host machine so it
just makes it much more dangerous to
modify things
also the startup and shutdown speed of a
physical system is on the order of
minutes so to spin down that server and
reboot it for for some reason that can
take a number of minutes and so it's
just relatively slow if you want to try
to achieve high uptime and and eliminate
downtime for your applications
in addition to that creating new
physical machines sort of provisioning a
new system is very very slow so
depending on my setup if I have my own
Data Center and I need to actually order
the hardware and get it installed and
hook up networking that could be on the
order of days or weeks if I'm working
with a co-location facility or a cloud
provider that offers bare metal systems
that provisioning might be on the order
of hours but still quite slow relative
to what we'll see as we evolve and sort
of add in this concept of virtualization
and so that's bare metal I think most
people are familiar with working with
bare metal
um even if they don't realize it because
when you run things on your laptop or
your desktop you're installing them
directly in the host and so that is this
concept of of bare metal
however that's not the only way to do
things and so these challenges really
prompted Engineers to come up with this
concept of virtualization and adding
virtual machines such that we can
eliminate some of those challenges and
so in the case of a virtual machine now
this outer boundary is still the host
the physical system the server we've got
our Hardware we may or may not have an
operating system running on that
Hardware I'll talk about that more in a
second but then we have what's known as
a hypervisor and so hypervisor is some
combination of software and Hardware
that allows us to carve up the physical
resources so think CPU cores memory
access to storage or gpus other devices
it allows us to carve up that pool of
resources into isolated smaller pools
that we can then install our our systems
onto and so this hypervisor kind of
gives us this virtual Hardware layer
upon which we can then install an
operating system installed binaries and
libraries and install our applications
and so now rather than having both
applications on the single physical host
we now have application one and
application two each with their own
virtual isolated virtual machine
uh running on top of that hypervisor and
so there's two types of hypervisor type
one means there's no underlying OS these
are running directly on the physical
Hardware this is beneficial because you
don't sacrifice any performance in that
sort of os to software virtualization
layer there's a small performance hit
but much less than if you have an
operating system on the hardware and
then a hypervisor on top of that so
things like AWS Nitro so that's the
hypervisor that Amazon web services is
using to create virtual machines on
their servers VMware is a very popular
virtualization company and they have
vsphere which is a type 1 hypervisor
if you want to just create a virtual
machine let's say on your laptop you're
probably going to use a type 2
hypervisor one such example is
virtualbox you can install this program
virtualbox and then within that you can
create virtual machines for various uh
operating systems Etc
and so how does this compare to those
challenges that we saw with the bare
metal systems one we've eliminated this
dependency hell so now each virtual
machine has an isolated set of
dependencies binaries and libraries such
that our application can specify
whatever dependencies it needs and not
have to worry about the needs of other
applications because of this we're going
to have better utilization so we can
carve up a big server CPU into many
different smaller
chunks and each of those chunks can have
its own virtual machine and then we can
install
our applications accordingly so this is
what enables a cloud provider you can go
on and see oh I can I can choose between
all these different machine types they
don't actually have all those different
machine types installed in their data
center they have much larger machine
types and you're getting some sliver of
that installed as a virtual machine
you also we've also reduced the blast
radius significantly such that now if if
something goes wrong with application
one on virtual machine one that should
be isolated from application 2 and
Virtual Machine 2 and it should not
cause any issues and so because of that
we've increased the safety of making
changes
we've also sped up the speed at which we
can start and stop these things so now
it's still on the order of minutes
probably
um but faster than shutting down and
starting a physical server and then
finally uh one area where virtual
machines have a big bonus over bare
metal is that we can provision and
decommission them much much faster and
so we're all used to living In This
Cloud world where we can go on to our
favorite cloud provider click the button
or issue a command and have a new
virtual server ready within minutes or
if we're done with it we can
decommission it and it can also be done
and we can stop paying for it within
minutes as well
and so that's
the sort of the second tier or the
second rung along this path of
virtualization the next one being
containers and so containers obviously
are the focus of this course they change
things a bit further still so now in
this outer box we've got our host or our
which could be a physical system
it also could be a virtual machine so we
can take either of those two concepts
from before and we can run containers
within that context
uh you can see at the bottom we've got
either a virtual or physical Hardware
with an operating system and then the
key piece here that's kind of analogous
to that hypervisor is the container
runtime so this is a piece of software
that knows how to take a container image
and run it within the host system the
key difference between virtual machines
and containers is that virtual machines
are running their own copy of the Linux
kernel and I'm talking only about Linux
containers within this course there are
windows containers but that is a
different topic for a different day
and so with Linux containers they are
actually running they're sharing the
kernel with the host operating system
versus in a virtual machine you have
your own Opera you have your own kernel
and you have a copy of your own
operating system that's running and So
within a container you're sharing that
with the host however we're using
certain features that I'll go into later
of the Linux kernel to help provide
isolation between the different
container processes and so you don't get
quite the same level of isolation that
you would with a virtual machine you do
get quite good isolation if you
configure things properly
as we can see now we have our two
containers both running on the same host
however they are still isolated and have
their own copies of binaries and
libraries even though they're sharing
that underlying kernel now there's a
couple of different sort of types of
software related to Containers the first
category of which I'll call the desktop
container platforms so these are sort of
container Management Systems things like
Docker fall into this category things
like podman these are things that you
would install on your development system
to manage containers manage container
images run containers set up the the
necessary networking Etc so these are
kind of the holistic life cycle systems
and then there's much more targeted or
specific pieces of software called
container runtimes which include things
like container D or cryo and these are
very specifically designed to take a
container image that adheres to the spec
and run it with the necessary
configuration options to provide that
type of isolated environment that is
shown in the image
now how does this compare to Virtual
machines and bare metal in terms of
those challenges we saw before again we
don't have the issue of dependency
conflicts because they each have their
own underlying binaries and libraries
we've improved our utilization
efficiency even further because we now
for each virtual machine we had to have
a an entire copy of that operating
system so each of those virtual machine
images is going to be on the order of
gigabytes whereas container images can
be much much smaller because they're
able to leverage that underlying OS
and so they're generally going to be on
the order of megabytes I have seen very
large multi-gigabyte container images
but that's not ideal
but because of this we're able to
utilize the resources of the system much
more effectively again we have a small
blast radius where we have some level of
isolation even if it's not quite as
strong of an isolation as a virtual
machine
we're able to start and stop containers
even more quickly than virtual machines
so in the order of seconds we're able to
in this case starting and stopping a
container is kind of equivalent to
provisioning and decommissioning so also
on the order of seconds we can bring up
a new container from scratch and clear
it out as well and then the final sort
of key piece I think with containers is
that they're small and light enough that
we now start to use them within our
development environment sure you could
use something like virtualbox you could
create a virtual machine that tries to
replicate your your production
environment
but it's kind of slow and clunky and not
that many people do some people do but
but many people don't containers are
light enough that now more and more will
start to actually run containers and
we're going to do this later in the
course run containers within our
development environment such that we can
have high confidence that our our
production environment is as similar as
possible to that development environment
and that just decreases the likelihood
that we're going to hit some small
nuanced bug between the differences
there and so we're able to develop more
efficiently using a technology like this
and so I I pointed out here that this
host can be a virtual or a physical
machine and so now we can get a little
bit uh Inception with it where we have a
host machine
with virtual machines running on it and
then containers running within uh those
virtual machines and so this is a very
common
configuration that you'll see most
people who are working with containers
in the cloud are going to have something
like this where you have multiple
virtual machines each running multiple
containers and so this is just combining
all these Concepts together
and the real challenge now becomes how
do I how do I manage all of these
containers across those virtual machine
hosts and that's where this concept of
orchestrators comes in and so things
like kubernetes Nomad from hashicorp or
Docker swarm are these systems that are
designed specifically to take containers
and run and manage and schedule them
across multiple nodes and so in this
case the node is each of those virtual
machines
and so when we get to the deployment
section of this course we'll talk a
little bit more about this but it's just
important to know kind of the concepts
of hey I'm starting with this bare metal
server it my my code has to run
somewhere on some physical CPU I'm
carving it up into these smaller virtual
machines that I'm able to manage a
little bit more effectively but then I
also want to gain the benefits and the
speed and the efficiency that a
container provides and so combining
these different types of virtualization
in this way that we see more and more
companies using in this day and age
this chart just summarizes most of those
challenges and trade-offs that I talked
about before in terms of dependency
management virtual machines and
containers really shine in terms of
utilization containers definitely win
out just because it's much easier to get
to pack applications more efficiently
when running them in containers from an
isolation perspective you can't get any
more isolated than multiple physical
hosts if you're running application a on
on one server and application B on one
other physical server that's the
strongest isolation you can get virtual
machines still provide very strong
isolation and those hypervisors are
these
very optimized systems with a small
attack surface area that have really
been battle tested and so I think
isolation provided by virtual machines
is almost as good as as those from bare
metal obviously there could still be
some unknown bug that that causes a
security issue there but I think most
people have quite high confidence in the
isolation that hypervisors provides and
then containers this is one area where
they are less good than these other
options is they do provide some level of
isolation we'll talk about the the ways
in which they do that
but they don't give the same they're not
as strong and if you make a
configuration mistake the level of
isolation can be dropped significantly
so that's why I gave containers a yellow
on isolation startup speed containers
win out the ability to run containers
within a development environment because
they're lightweight enough means that
we're much more likely to do so and
therefore have stronger parity or have
have our development environments in our
production environments more similar to
one another
this control row is one that I haven't
talked about as much this is just the
fact that you can have full
configuration control over the system in
a bare metal context
that you might not get in a virtual
machine so only you only have control
over the features or the specific
configuration options that the
hypervisor passes through or the
container runtime passes through and so
maybe there's some specific type of GPU
or Hardware accelerator that is not yet
supported by your particular container
runtime or your hypervisor in those
cases the bare metal system is going to
win out because if you need that
specific Hardware config that might be
the only way in which you can achieve it
and that leads into kind of this this
next row of performance obviously a
summary of red yellow green here can't
fully capture the nuances you don't take
that much of a performance hit when you
move to a virtual machine or container
however I think one place that
performance can win out on bare metal is
because of that control you're able to
do things like if you're if you're
running multiple servers for example
ensure that they are directly next to
each other on the same server rack such
that the networking latency is as small
as possible or ensuring that the storage
devices that you're using are directly
connected to that physical Machine
versus accessing them over the network
and so there is Performance Tuning that
bare metal provides the opportunity to
do but overall the performance is fairly
comparable for most use cases across
these different Technologies
and then the final column there just
sort of how challenging it is to work
with and so so if I'm if I'm buying and
racking my own servers in a facility
that's it intensely difficult to do and
manage there are now providers that can
give me access to Bare Metal systems and
handle some of this operational overhead
but I think it's still more challenging
than virtual machines and more
challenging still than containers where
I can spin something up and and down
very easily and there's all of these
services that have container runtimes
such that as long as I provide a
compatible container image I'm able to
run it within that system and we'll see
that optionality uh in in a later
portion of the course when we get into
deploying our own containerized
applications and so now that we have a
better understanding of the motivation
and history of containers and
virtualization Technologies I think it's
useful to do a bit of a technology deep
dive and start to understand the the
foundational Linux kernel features that
software like Docker is using to make
the magic of containers happen and
provide those isolated environments that
we described then towards the end of
this section we'll actually take a look
at the docker system architecture itself
there's three technologies that make up
the core of a container and that is
namespaces control groups and Union file
systems and now namespaces are a
mechanism to wrap a global system
resource such that from within that
namespace any processes running within
the namespace it appears as though they
have their own isolated instance of that
resource and they cannot see things
happening outside of their own instance
so for example on the right here we have
a listing of the various types of
namespaces at one very good example is
the PID namespace so the process ID
namespace within a container it is
isolated with with a PID namespace such
that the process I'm running appears to
be process ID number one even though
there may be tons of other processes
running on the host from inside the
container we don't know anything about
those host processes and we essentially
think that we are the only thing running
in this system another good one to call
out is the username space so by using a
username space containers are able to
map a one user within the container to a
different user on the host system so we
could be running as a root user with
elevated privileges inside the container
but by run as long as that container is
run within a user namespace that's
configured correctly that root user
inside the container may actually map to
a non-root user outside the container
and that's very important from a
security perspective in case there was
an issue with with one of our containers
and an attacker was able to gain access
to it and break out of that container if
we had properly set up username spaces
then on the host they would not have the
same level of privileges that they had
inside the container
c groups are a Linux kernel feature that
allow you to organize your processes
into groups which you can then limit and
monitor access to certain resources and
so on the bottom left you can see within
the file system under proc c groups we
can see all the different c groups that
are available
these correspond to different system
resources whether they're CPU memory
storage devices Etc and using c groups
we can specify a configuration for a
particular process or group of processes
on how they should be able to access
those system resources and so for
example we might have one application
that is enabled to use up to 30 of the
CPU Cycles we would use the cpu.shares A
C group maybe it can use up to 50
megabytes of memory we would specify
that with the memory dot limit in bytes
C group and then we could also limit the
amount of disk read that it has access
to using the block i o throttle read
bits per second device C group now the
reason that this is important is that it
allows us to avoid what's called a Noisy
Neighbor problem where one application
is very resource hungry and sort of
starves the other applications of
resources by using c groups we can
isolate from a performance perspective
each of our different processes in each
of our different applications
now the third key underlying technology
is what's called a union Mount file
system a specific example of which that
Docker uses is called overlay FS
it essentially allows you to take
separate file systems and combine them
into a unified view that you can then
operate on and so in the image you can
see we have a lower file system and an
upper file system with various files
we've got file 1 2A and four in the
lower layer in the upper layer we have a
different file to be a new file three
and then we've actually deleted file
four
when we combine these layers into the
overlay we end up with a combination of
those two things where the upper layer
takes precedence over the lower and so
we have file one file 2B and file three
and so while namespaces and c groups are
sort of what make containers possible
it's this concept of a union map file
system that makes containers practical
because of this layered approach we're
able to share lower layers and cache
those layers such that the amount of
data that needs to be transferred and
stored for container images is much much
smaller because many images can share a
common lower layer and then only some
subset of the upper layers can be
modified which enables us to move less
data when we need to get a container
image onto a system and allocate less
space if we're running multiple copies
of the same container and so with those
Technologies while you can interact with
them directly it's software like Docker
that takes it and packages it into a
really nice user experience so rather
than needing to know all the different
commands to create control groups and
move processes into them or create
namespaces and and block off the
different portions of our system in such
a way Docker has bundled that into an
easy to use desktop application that we
can install in our system and get all of
that with a series of simple commands
that we're going to learn throughout
this course and so this is a diagram of
the docker desktop application there's a
there's a number of pieces here so let's
call them out in turn
on the left hand side is the client
application and so this is the thing
that we will be interacting with there's
a a number of elements there's the
command line interface so when I go to
my command line and type Docker run or
Docker pull I'm interfacing with that
Docker CLI there's also a graphical user
interface which gets installed this is
nice for browsing which images you might
have on your system you can do things
like configure how much CPU and memory
and disk space the docker application
has access to so there's a number of
nice user experience features that the
the GUI provides there's also a
credential Helper and so this is when we
learn more about Registries later on in
the course essentially registry is a
place where we can store we can push
images to and pull images from and so in
order to have a private registry you
need some way to log in and so the
docker credential helper is a mechanism
to help store the necessary credentials
to do the authentication for that and
then finally extensions are a relatively
new feature of Docker that are
third-party pieces of software that plug
into the client and provide additional
functionality in some way and so that's
the client application when you install
Docker desktop on your system it also
creates a Linux virtual machine so if
I'm on Mac OS there's no such thing as a
Mac OS container instead Docker uses a
hypervisor installs a Linux virtual
machine and then within that virtual
machine it sets up two things it sets up
the server host application and so
that's known as the docker Daemon or
Docker D that exposes an application
programming interface the docker API and
so when I execute a command from the the
command line let's say I do Docker run
that command gets passed to the docker
Daemon which is listening via that
Docker API and then it executes whatever
the command that is specifying within
that server host application so let's
say I did Docker run and then specified
I wanted to run my container image one I
might create it would then go off and
create that container 1A let's say I
then issued that same command Docker run
with my container image number one again
I would get another container container
1B and so this Docker Daemon is managing
those container objects as well as
things like networking and volumes all
within this server host application
finally there's an optional kubernetes
cluster that gets configured and
installed within that virtual machine
this can be a nice to have if you are
developing for kubernetes you can
leverage that cluster directly without
having to install and configure a
separate cluster I mentioned for Mac OS
it's a Linux virtual machine on Windows
there's actually two options you can
either configure it to use WSL Windows
system subsystem for Linux as the back
end or you can use hyper-v as that
virtualization layer to create a virtual
machine I think either of those are
viable when we go through the
installation and set up in the next
portion we can talk through that in a
little more detail
and then the final portion to call out
on the right I hinted at this but a
registry is just a place to store your
container images and share those
container images with your team or with
the world or with wherever you're
deploying your containers to and so
while it is not a part of Docker desktop
it's useful to call out here because
that Docker Daemon when it needs to get
an image that it's not building locally
it's going to go off to some registry
Docker Hub is a great example of one
such registry and pull that image into
the the host environment so that it can
then run the container from it
there's also a little bit of confusion
around
Docker Docker desktop and Docker engine
I've highlighted a few of the sub
components here that make up what's
known as Docker engine and so that is
the command line interface so that
Docker CLI as well as the docker Daemon
and the docker API those make up what is
known as Docker engine and that is the
open source core of Docker because the
the docker Daemon only runs on Linux you
can only install Docker engine on Linux
you don't get sort of this niceness of
the Linux virtual machine and sort of
the developer experience that the GUI
provides but if all you need to do is
build run and interact with containers
the docker engine might be sufficient
for your needs
in this course though because we're
using Docker for development and likely
many of you are on Windows and Mac OS
systems we're going to install Docker
desktop so that we can leverage all of
the developer experience niceness that
Docker desktop provides at this point I
think we are ready to go ahead and
install Docker on our systems and start
using it
one thing that is important to call out
is that for personal use Docker is
completely free you can use Docker
desktop without paying anything uh
however if you're using it for
commercial purposes and your team has
either more than 250 employees or more
than 10 million dollars in annual
revenue it does require one of the paid
tier subscriptions so depending on how
you're using it within your company it
may or may not be free so that's just
something to call out before we before
we install it but for personal and
learning purposes it is completely free
now to install it we can just go to the
docker docs under docs.doctor.com get
Docker and so in preparation for this
video I actually uninstalled Docker so
I'm going to go ahead and pull open
Chrome and go to that site
and so here I am at docs.docker.com get
Docker it gives us options for Windows
Mac and Linux so choose whichever
operating system you're on and then it
will have some additional system
requirements and information that you're
going to need I'll just click Docker
desktop for Mac with Intel and it'll
start downloading it is quite a large
file so we'll see hopefully my home
internet is fast enough
down below it has information about
system requirements for
depending on the type of system that
you're running so you just want to go
through and read these the installation
process is pretty much just like any
other desktop application here it's
downloading that.dmg file I'll then open
it drag it into my applications folder
on Windows similarly a pretty
straightforward installation process the
one thing to call out is the two
different options for the back end so I
described in the architecture diagram
how you have your client running
directly on your system but then you're
going to have this virtualized
environment where the docker Daemon is
running and so this is choosing whether
you want that Docker damage to be
running within WSL or using hyper-v as
the the back end system
if you are on Windows I would probably
just go with this WSL back end as that's
kind of the default option here
so it looks like my
installation file has finished I'll drag
it into applications
it expands from the 600 megabyte
download into a two gigabyte install
and now I should be able to just go to
my applications
and click on docker
it's verifying
it asks whether I want to trust it or
not click open
and so now here is that graphical user
interface one thing that I will call out
is you may want to go under settings
and then resources and here you can
specify how many of your system
resources that Docker as a whole should
have access to so here it's defaulted to
four CPUs 10 gigs of memory I'm going to
give it access to a little more memory
the defaults are likely fine for just
getting started but if you find yourself
running up against resource constraints
modifying these resource configurations
can be very helpful in alleviating those
constraints
in order to have those changes take
effect you have to click apply and
restart and so I'll do that now
now at this point we can run Docker
commands
and installing that application gave us
both the CLI as well as the the docker
demon and so let's run our first
container one fun example that we can
use is the whale say container and so I
can do
Docker run
Docker slash whale say
and then the command is going to be Cow
Say and I'll just say
hey team and so if I run that
it's gonna go off and find that public
whale say image download it from Docker
Hub so we can see it downloading now and
each of those lines corresponds to one
of the layers in that overlay file
system and so it's downloading each of
those images onto the host system such
that we can then run a container from
that image
and we see it took the phrase that I put
in here and gave us this nice ASCII art
output with that phrase built in and so
with that we have pulled an image from
Docker Hub run a container from it and
provided a custom command so that's kind
of the the most basic thing that we can
do with a Docker image and so that's a
fun example but let's do something a
little more useful let's say we needed a
copy of
postgres15.1 running for our application
we can just issue a Docker run command
and then I'm I'm doing two options here
one I'm setting the postgres password
environment variable that's just
something that's needed the container
won't start if you don't set a password
and then I'm also publishing Port 5432
and so because these Docker containers
are running on an isolated Network the
only way that I'm going to be able to
connect to it from my host is to publish
that port and so that publish command is
saying take Port 5432 on my my Local
Host my system and connect that to Port
5432 inside the container I'm then
specifying the postgres image and
specifically version 15.1 running on the
Alpine operating system
again it didn't have that image locally
so it's going to pull that from Docker
hub
once it finishes pulling it then starts
up the image and now we have the
database system running inside that
container ready to accept connections
just to show that it is actually running
and accepting connections we can open up
PG admin
and we can see I've added this docker
database and it was able to successfully
connect to it and we can for example
run a query
I could do select star
from information schema
dot tables
and run that
and we get all the tables from that
information schema within the database
running inside the container hopefully
this gets you excited about the
possibilities of what running inside of
these isolated container environments
can provide in terms of your development
life cycle
now that we've run a couple of simple
containers on our system I want to
really dive deep on using third-party
container images and how we can leverage
these within our development process to
solve a number of different use cases
now Docker Hub is a container registry
hosted by the company Docker there's
over a hundred thousand publicly
available images ranging from things
like Alpine and Ubuntu which are
different flavors of Linux to specific
tools such as nginx which is a web
server and reverse proxy
or BusyBox which is a utility image that
has tons of different useful commands
that you can leverage on your system
from within docker
if you go to hub.doccer.com you can then
search the images or browse based on the
different filters there on the left
and so if there is some utility that you
want to use likely someone has created
an image for that
now before we go off and create a bunch
of containers on our system I do want to
pause and call out the fact that by
default any data that we create or
modify within a container at runtime is
going to be ephemeral meaning if that
container is stopped and removed from
our host all those data will be gone now
there are two mechanisms by which we can
help to solve this for dependencies that
we want to be in the container when it
started up we'll want to build those
into the image itself and we'll look at
how to do that
as you can see in the diagram on the
right if we remember that overlay that
Union file system approach we have all
of our different build layers there and
those at runtime are treated as
read-only so we've we're starting with a
an Ubuntu image we're installing uh some
dependencies we're copying in our source
code we're we're running npm install to
pull in those node uh those node
dependencies all of those layers when we
create a container from that image are
treated as read-only and then there's
just this thin read write layer on top
that's where any data that's modified at
runtime will go
if there's some additional dependency or
configuration change that is needed
rather than starting the container and
then making that change where that
change would live in the the read write
layer at the top we'll want to pull that
into our build process such that every
time we create a container from that
image it will have the necessary change
now the other case with data that we may
want to persist are data generated by
the application at runtime so this could
be things like data that we're storing
in a database when a user creates or
modifies some some aspect of their
profile let's say on a website those
data we can't incorporate into the image
because they're not known at build time
but instead we need to store them in
such a way that they'll be that they
will persist beyond the life cycle of
the container itself now there's two
mechanisms to do that the first of which
is called a volume and so we can create
what's known as a Docker volume that
will designate a particular location
within the docker host system so it will
be within that virtual machine that
Docker is running located at slash bar
lib slash Docker volumes we can then
when we run a container tell Docker to
use that volume and mount it at a
specific path within our container file
system such that any data we store there
gets stored in the volume and that can
be managed separately from the life
cycle of the container itself
now the second option is a bind Mount
and so where the volume Mount the data
is still stored within that virtual
machine on the Linux file system with a
bind Mount we're actually we're actually
connecting our host file system into the
Container at runtime so I'm going to
have some path on my system uh and then
I'm going to mount that into the
Container at runtime and now if I modify
any files within that path they'll show
up on the host file system both of these
are viable options Docker suggests using
volume mounts by default one reason for
this is that because that bind Mount is
crossing the boundary between our
virtual machine and our host system a
performance can be much lower if we are
doing things that have a lot of reads
and writes and so by default use a
volume Mount if you need to have easy
observability into the data that's being
modified or you want to be able to see
the files that are being created more
easily then a bind Mount can be a good
option also later in the course we'll
use a bind Mount to actually Mount our
source code into the Container such that
when we make changes and our developing
on the Fly those changes can be
represented within the container file
system right away I just covered a lot
within this one slide but I created a
walkthrough in the GitHub repo that
we'll do now that I think will really
solidify these Concepts
so the readme for the fourth module of
the course so the running third-party
containers module has all of this within
it and so now I'm going to walk through
the process here that is outlined in
this readme and I think it will make
what I was just describing uh much more
clear about data persistence so remember
our container file system looks like
this we have a number of read-only
layers that that exist in the image and
then we have a read write layer at the
very top
let's do some experimentation with
running a container installing something
in it and seeing how that behaves when
we create additional containers from
that same image so let's start by doing
a Docker run command and we'll pass it
the dash dash interactive flag and the
dash s TTY flag those two flags together
mean that when we issue this command
we'll get a running shell within that
container the dash dash RM flag tells
Docker that once this container process
exits so once we exit the container it
should not store that stopped container
it should actually remove that from our
system so if we run this it's going to
go off and pull that Ubuntu 2204 image
then it starts the container and now
we're running a shell inside that
container let's try to Ping google.com
from within the container
as you can see the pin command is not
found it's not installed by default
within that Ubuntu image
to install it we can use the APT package
manager we can do apt update
that'll go off and fetch all the
metadata associated with the APT package
manager
and then we can do apt install IP utils
ping
I'll say yes
and so now with ping installed we should
be able to call Ping google.com
uh one time that's the dash C1 it's
successfully pinged Google and that's
great now I'm going to exit this
container and if we want to take a look
at the container ID here dd61 we'll get
a different container ID the next time
we create one
so now I'm going to rerun that same
command we're going to create a new
container from that same image
and you see we have a different
container ID this container doesn't know
anything about that previous one and so
because we installed that ping command
within the read write container image of
the other container it was blown away
completely when we exited and Docker
removed that container so now that we're
in this container again if we try to do
ping ping is not found
however let's change this experiment
just a little bit so I'll exit this
container and now I'm going to run the
same command but I'm going to add I'm
going to remove this Dash SRM flag so
docker's not going to throw away the
container after it stops and then I'm
going to add a name option and so I'll
name it my Ubuntu container
and now we have a shell inside that
container again we're going to do apt
update and apt install and that will get
our ping utility installed within the
container
okay so now with ping installed we
should be able to use it
great and so now when I exit
because I didn't have that Dash remove
flag the container still exists on my
system if I do a Docker PS that will
list containers but because it stopped
it doesn't show by default so I'll do a
dash a
and we can see my Ubuntu container was
running it was created 41 seconds ago it
exited 13 seconds ago but it should this
container even though it's in its stop
State still has that read write layer
associated with it so I can now restart
my container with the docker start
command
so I'll do Docker start and pass it my
container name
and then I can use the docker attach
command to attach to the Shell running
inside that container so now I'm back
inside the container and I can ping
Google and it works successfully
so that just shows
we created a container we installed the
dependency in that container layer we
stopped the container but did not delete
it and then we were able to jump back in
that same container and that dependency
existed again
now normally we would never want to jump
into a container and modify things like
this on the Fly the better approach and
the approach that we'll want to use for
a dependency like this is we want this
to always be there when we start a
container from that particular image so
instead of starting the container and
persisting it in the container itself
instead we want to build our own image
containing that dependency and so we're
going to do a much deeper dive on
building containers and optimizing those
builds in module six but we can write a
very simple Docker file here and pass it
at the command line so this is just
saying start from that Ubuntu container
image run the APT update apt install and
that passes it to the docker build
command and then we're going to tag it
with this tag my Ubuntu image so if I
run this command Docker is going to
build a brand new image based on the
original but now this new image is going
to have IP utils installed out of the
box
if I want to run a container based on
the new image I'll use the tag specified
in the build command
and now I don't have to install ping
because it's already installed so now I
can run ping Google and it succeeds
so hopefully that gives you a better
idea of how this container file system
works and the fact that if we want some
data likely in the form of a dependency
or configuration to be available at
runtime every time we want to build that
into the image we don't want to start an
image and then make modifications to get
it to the state we want and so that's
the that's the case of data that we know
about at build time and can build into
the image directly
the Second Use case that I described was
Data produced by the application at
runtime and so like I mentioned this
could be data that's going into a
database
let's do some experimentation to build
up some intuition about this type of
data
again I'm going to create a container
from that Ubuntu image now this time
I've shortened the dash dash interactive
dty you get the same thing in a
shorthand version with just Dash it and
so here we have a shell running in that
container to simulate data created at
runtime I'm going to make a directory
called my data
and then I'm going to Echo hello from
the container into a file within that
directory and so now if I cat my data
hello text we can see hello from the
container stored in a file on the
container file system
if I exit the container
run a new container from the same image
what do we expect if I try to do cat my
data hello text of course
that file doesn't exist just like when
we installed something into the file
system it's in that top read write layer
that gets Blown Away with the container
but now we can no longer build this into
the image because we don't know what
this file should say ahead of time
so instead we're going to use a volume
I can run Docker volume create my volume
and that creates a volume and now I can
modify my run command such that I mount
the volume into the file system of that
container
so I've added this dash dash Mount flag
it's using the source of my volume which
I just created and it's using a
destination of my data root slash my
data
now
I'm going to do exactly what I did
before I'll do maker my data
oh it already exists because I mounted
that volume that directory was already
created
so I'll Echo just like before hello from
container into a file within that
directory
I'll cut it
our data exists within that file system
but if I exit
and then recreate a new container also
mounting that same volume
we can go into my data
and see that hello text has persisted
across that container destruction so the
data was stored in the volume even
though we stopped the container and
Docker removed it from the system the
volume is treated separately and so we
were able to persist the data across
that container boundary
now you might be wondering where where
does this file actually live it has to
live somewhere on disk and in this case
because I'm on Mac OS it lives within
that virtual machine that Docker is
managing so it's if I was on Linux it
would just be directly at VAR lib Docker
volumes because I'm in Mac OS I don't
have varlib Docker volumes that lives
within the virtual machine one way that
we can take a look at that is to run
this privileged container so this is a
Nifty trick that I saw online where I
can run this command and it will
essentially give me a shell into that
virtual machine that Docker is running
and now I can navigate to varlib Docker
volumes
I see a whole bunch of volumes the one I
care about is the one that I named my
volume
now if I go into the data directory
oh if I go into the data directory
and I see my Hello dot text
and so this is showing in that virtual
machine file system where that volume
actually lives
now this was just a trivial example
where I was creating that file and
wanted it to persist
let's say we were running a database
like we were running postgres before we
would want to use the same approach with
a volume and mount it into the file
system of the container where postgres
was going to store its data and so by
default postgres stores at slash bar lib
postgres data and so we would want to
modify our Command to use that mounting
syntax there's an alternative syntax
with the dash V that does the same thing
and this would allow us to store
the database data in a volume and manage
that separately from the container
now I mentioned that volume mounts were
one option and bind mounts were the
other let's explore what a bind mount
looks like for the same use case
now I'm going to take my command
that I used before where I had a volume
Mount and change the type to bind so now
the type is bind my source is my present
working directory and in particular the
my data directory within my present
working directory and so let's just list
out to show I have a my data directory
here
within there there's already a hello.tax
let's remove that
so now there's nothing in my data
and if I run this command I'm going to
mount that directory from my host file
system
at the present work directory slash my
data in the destination is going to be
root slash my data on the container
so let's Echo something in here blah
blah
that's going to go into hello.txt
so inside the container we have blah
blah within hello.txt if I exit that
container I'm now on my host system and
if I cat my data hello.txt we can see
that file was created and stored at the
path that I specified I can also modify
the host data and that will be reflected
inside of a container mounted in the
same fashion so I can do
I'll add another blah
okay so it's three blocks outside the
container I'll now recreate my container
it'll actually be a new container
but still mounted at that same path and
if I do cat my data hello.txt we see the
updated version reflected inside that
container and so as you can see bind
mounts just like volumes are a mechanism
to persist data beyond the container
life cycle
the volume Mount is kind of tucked away
inside the the
file system that Docker is managing the
bind Mount is located on my local system
by default Docker suggests using volumes
they're slightly easier to manage
however if you want easier visibility
into the data itself it can be
convenient to use a bind Mount just be
aware that you can suffer some
performance impacts if you're doing
heavy read writes into the bind Mount
location
so my hope is that this has helped to
build your intuition around how data is
handled within containers both sort of
the default case then the case where we
want dependencies available in the
container when it started and then the
third case where data is generated at
runtime and sort of how we should manage
each of those either by building those
data into the image or by mounting a
volume or a bind Mount to capture those
data beyond the life cycle of the
container
the other thing that I've called out
within this readme that I think you'll
find useful are specific use cases for
leveraging third-party containers
directly and what by that I mean not
needing to build our own container image
the first one is databases so databases
are always a pain to deal with sometimes
you need one version sometimes you need
another sometimes you'll have multiple
databases that you'll want to interact
with for different projects Docker
provides a super useful mechanism for
spinning up a new container with a
different database that you can use and
have that completely separate from one
application to another from one version
to another very very easily I think the
key considerations are to always use a
volume to persist the data if you have
additional configuration that you need
so let's say there's a config file that
you need to have in the container when
it's starting up to
in order to set some specific
configuration you can use a bind mount
to mount that from your host file system
into the container and then finally
you'll want to set the necessary
environment variables so a number of the
the official database images use
environment variables to configure
things like the root password within the
container so earlier when we started
that postgres container we had to set
the postgres password environment
variable there's a number of things like
that with these database container
images
I've laid out a number of a number of
different databases and I've tried to
capture the specific volume mounts and
environment variables that you might
need to use so we've seen postgres
before here I've added that volume mount
for the location where the data gets
stored if you had a custom postgresql
comp file I didn't want to use the
defaults you would modify this command
to use this bind Mount so you would have
this on your local file system and then
you would pass the dash C flag to The
Container when you when you run it and
pass it a path to that flag so this is
as you can see where we mounted inside
the container
this is that same path and that tells
the container upon startup to look there
for the configuration file so mongodb
the official image it looks quite
similar as you can see
it's expecting to save the data to slash
data DB so we're putting that into a
volume we're setting the initial root
username and password with environment
variables and we're publishing the
default Port of 27017
again if we have a specific
configuration file we need to pass in
we're going to bind Mount that into the
container and then we're going to pass a
configuration flag to tell where
to look for that
uh I'll let you look at the rest of
these on your own time but I've I've
laid out the commands for redis MySQL
elasticsearch and neo4j
now the Second Use case that I think
using third-party containers is super
useful for is when you need an
interactive test environment for
something other than what you're running
on your daily on your laptop so I'm
running Mac OS but sometimes I need to
test out commands in Ubuntu or Debian or
or Alpine and so being able to run this
Quick Command and have a interactive
shell within that specific Linux flavor
is really Priceless like I can test out
commands and iterate on them so much
more quickly if I'm writing a script
that's eventually going to be run in
that environment
I'll just create a container using one
of these commands and then I have an
interactive environment where I can test
things figure out the exact syntax use
the help commands Etc
interactive test environments for
operating systems or for programming
runtimes we can do something very
similar but instead of having a shell in
the OS we'll have a rebel
in our command line with a particular
version of that programming runtime and
so if we're if we're testing something
that needs python 311 1 versus 311 0 or
some minor tweak it's so easy using
Docker to get an environment that has
the exact versions that we care about
for doing that type of test
now the final sort of use case that I
find super helpful for using third-party
containers are command line utilities
sometimes you just won't have it
installed or you don't have the right
version and so people have bundled up
these utilities and because so many Unix
tools are designed to pass data as text
from one to another so we can pipe data
from one command to the next we can pass
data into these containers and get the
output as a stream
we can use these without actually having
them installed on our system so JQ is a
utility for working with Json data
and so for example if I run this
command
so if I jump back here
and we look at the sample data I have
here so let's say I have this test.json
it has key one value one key two value
two
if I run this command
it's going to take that test Json data
file pass it into this JQ image and
perform this command so it's going to
find the value located at q1 and combine
it with the value located at T2 and so
in this case I get value 1 value 2 as a
string and that's the output and so
without having JQ installed on my system
I'm still able to use that utility
directly with docker
yq is similar to JQ but is for yaml
there's also
command line interfaces from cloud
providers such as the AWS command line
or the Google Cloud platform command
line and you can run those
and container images you will need to
mount in your credentials so by default
we know that the container is not going
to have access to the host file system
and so if your credentials are stored at
let's say the dot AWS directory within
your home directory or the dot config
directory within your home directory
you'll need to craft the the correct
volume the correct bind Mount commands
to get those credentials into the CLI
but once you do that it allows you to
use different versions of the CLI very
easily and so if there was a breaking
change from one version to the next you
can leverage that previous version
without having to reinstall and modify
things if you've already upgraded now
this sounds cool but you might be
thinking I don't want to have to type
out Docker run blah blah with all these
bind mounts Etc and so one way that we
can improve the ergonomics of this quite
a bit is to use two concepts one is a
shell function so we can write a
function like this that will take this
command and essentially invoke it when
we run this function we also can use an
alias to do the same thing to close out
this section I wanted to pull up a talk
that was given by Jesse fresell I think
this was in 2015. so this is quite a few
years ago Docker was much younger in its
maturity however she was an early
adopter and employee at Docker and used
to run all sorts of things within Docker
and so I think this is a talk that is
worth watching for sure and just sort of
shows
that you can pretty much run anything in
containers giving it a watch is really
interesting and inspiring and helps to
understand sort of this mindset of
I don't necessarily need to install
everything on my host system she goes a
little further than most with this
concept but I think it's still
eye-opening to see the number and types
of things that she's able to run in
containers so with that we've reached
the end of the first portion of the
course in which we learned the history
and motivation of Docker about the
underlying Technologies we installed and
configured Docker such that we're now
able to run containers and interact with
them and then we saw some use cases for
leveraging third-party container images
for different things throughout our
development life cycle at this point
we're going to shift gears and start
building our own containerized
applications I think it's important to
realize that learning Docker in a vacuum
doesn't actually provide much value and
so instead we want to have some
realistic web application with which we
can apply this technology in this module
I'm going to walk through a sample
application that I've built for exactly
that purpose
it's a minimal three-tier web
application and by three tiers we have
the front the front end or the client
that's built in react we have an API
layer application programming interface
layer we have one API built in node.js
so that's an interpreted language one
built in go Lang a compiled language we
have both of those that they're almost
identical but I wanted to show two
different languages with two different
developer tool chains so that we can
showcase how Docker handles those
slightly differently and then we're
going to have a postgres database I've
tried to keep each of these components
as simple as possible while still being
representative of the type of
application that you might see in a
modern web technology company today the
implementation of each of them will be
quite minimal but how we configure
things like networking and passing
credentials will be realistic to an
application at a web technology at this
point I'll jump over to my code editor
and walk through this code at a very
high level I'll point out though because
this course is focused on Docker and
containers and not on web application
programming I'll keep this relative high
level just to give you an idea of the
things that the code is actually doing
and highlighting the configuration
surface area where Docker is going to
interface with them at this point if you
haven't already you'll want to go to the
companion repo for this course I'll have
a link for it down in the description
and you can find all the source code
that we'll be going through and building
out and what you'll want to do is here
under code you can either click here and
clone it to your system but even better
is if you Fork it because that way you
can make modifications commit those
modifications and if you have any
improvements you'd like to make and
propose back to the course for others to
use you could create a pull request back
to my copy of this repo on GitHub and
that would be awesome while you're here
if you don't mind giving it a star that
would be super helpful to help the
project grow and while I'm asking for
your support you may as well hit the
thumbs up button on the video as well
and so with that let's jump over to the
text editor and see this demo
application so I've got the code editor
up here and we're in module 5 the
example web application I'm going to
start by running the database just like
we did in module four I'm going to run
the database with a Docker run command
I'm going to pass it a postgres password
environment variable
I'm going to use a volume Mount like we
talked about to persist the data outside
of the container in this volume so it
can live beyond the life cycle of this
particular container
and then I'm going to publish Port 5432
which is the default Port that postgres
runs on and I'm using postgres 15.1 and
in particular the Alpine variant
so this is a make file each of these is
called make Target you can do make run
postgres
and now we have that database running in
a container
I can do the docker PS command to list
out the containers running and we can
see here's the container this is the
image it was based on because I didn't
specify a name it generates a random one
and we're publishing that Port so that I
can connect from my Local Host
at this point let's move and take a look
at the node API and get that running as
well
so it's located within this API node
subdirectory if we look in the
package.json file
we can see there are just a couple of
dependencies
we have Express which is a package for
building rest based apis we have Morgan
which helps us configure logging for
that API a little more easily and then
we have the PG package or the postgres
package which is going to allow us to
create a client and connect to the
database
so what I'm going to do here
is make sure I'm running the right
version of node so I have NVM installed
so I can do NVM LS it'll list out the
different options that I have installed
on my system I want 19.4 so I'll use NVM
use
node 19 4.
and then I'll do npm install it's going
to grab those dependencies from the
package.json and install them in my
system in this node modules folder
if I wanted to run the application I
would do npn run Dev but I also need to
pass it one environment variable and
that environment variable is
the database URL so this is going to
give the application the information it
needs to connect to that postgres
database running in the container and so
again I have the same I have this
command laid out here and so I'm just
going to do make run API node
and now it started up enlisting on Port
3000. let's just go see how that
application behaves
if I load it up
we see at the root path so I haven't
specified any path it Returns the
current timestamp and I'll show it so
I'll show you how this is working behind
the scenes but it's just querying the
database asking for the current time and
then returning that and then I have the
API node key and value just to show this
is the node-based API we'll have an
almost identical response from the go
link API except this will say go Lang
instead of node
for each time we refresh the page we're
seeing there's a 200 response that's a
successful HTTP response for the request
and then we have this 404 for the
favicon so because I'm loading it from
from a browser it's also trying to load
that little icon that you'd see in the
top left corner but it doesn't have one
so that's the the 404 not found error
that we're seeing there
now let me just look very briefly at the
source code for this application to show
you what it's doing
we've got two primary files index.js is
the main one
we're importing some dependencies here
at the top
we're setting the port number that we're
listening on defaulting to Port 3000
we're setting up some logging and then
here's where we Define that API endpoint
where we call our get date time function
which I'll show you here in a minute and
then we populate the node we populate
the API key within that Json object as
well in our
database.rdb.js file is where we have
that function it's where we're gonna
load in our connection our credentials
so that we can connect to the database
instantiate a new pool which will be
that database client and then make the
necessary call to the database to get
the time then we can return on that
endpoint
and so that's pretty much all there is
to this node application like I said I
wanted to keep this as simple as
possible while still highlighting the
types of networking and configurations
that would that we would need in a real
world application
at this point with the node application
running we can jump
we can move on to the the golang
application
and so for this one
it's located at the subdirectory API
golang here I am within that directory
to
install the dependencies I would do go
Mod download first I'm going to set the
go path just to tell it where to
download those modules to to set a
workspace
I've got this go workspace subdirectory
I can export gopath
and that will point to that subdirectory
now if I do go Mod download
it's going to look for the dependencies
that are in my go mod file and so the
two dependencies that I've added here
are gin which is a an API framework
and PGX which is a postgres client and
so that go Mod download looked in go mod
brought those into my workspace okay so
now we should have all of our necessary
dependencies
and just for reference I'm using go 1.19
and so to execute this program I would
do go run and then point it to the the
main.go file that's going to both build
the application and run that built
binary again just like the node
application I either need to pass it an
environment variable with the database
URL or pass it a file containing those
credentials
I have a command in my make file that
does just that so I can do make run API
golang
we see it passes that database URL
in as an environment variable and then
executes our goaling and then does go
run main.go that's running on port 8080
so I can go here
and reload this and very similar
response to the no land to the node.js
one we have API golang and then it's
grabbing that time stamp from the
database each time I refresh it gets an
updated time
and so just very briefly I can take a
look and show you the implementation
here I'll pull open the the main.go file
as you can see we import our
dependencies here at the top we then
have our init function within there
we're loading in the credentials that we
need to to connect to the database once
we do that we pass those credentials to
this init DB function which is defined
in the database module that I'll pull up
here in a minute and then within our
main function we have our endpoint
defined where we call our
database.gettime function and take the
results of that
and we've returned that Json object
using gin
I'll just pop open the database module
here just to show you the two functions
there we've got our init DB function
where we're taking our connection string
with those credentials and initiating a
client and then I have this get time
function which just like in the node
implementation is calling select now is
now getting those data back and
returning that to the caller
and so that's really all there is to
this application like I said almost
identical to node we just want to have
both of these different languages so we
can show how to manage the different
tool chains how we're going to build the
docker container images and how we're
going to create containers from those
images
now with the golang API running the
final piece of the puzzle is going to be
the react client so that implementation
is here in the client react subdirectory
once again we can look at the
package.json we have a handful of
dependencies we have react and react Dom
those are installed by Veet when I
created this project I used V to do so
and then I added axios as well as this
react query package which just enabled
me to very easily call my apis get those
data and feed that data into my react
components
so I'll want to once again just make
sure I'm using the right version of node
I want 19.4
great I'll do an npm
make sure I'm in the right directory
then I'll do npm install
this goes off and downloads all those
dependencies brings them into my
my local
node modules folder
and then to run it I'll just do npm run
Dev
and by default uh Veet is going to run
that development server on Port 5173
so if I load the page here
we see the result it's a react app it
calls both of those apis gets the data
and returns them each time I refresh you
can see that the the timestamps are
updating and so that's doing exactly
what we want to do
once again I can give you a quick look
at the source code just so I can show
you what it's doing
all the logic pretty much is in this
app.jsx file we're pulling in our
dependencies at the top I have this
function based component called current
time that uses the use Query method and
axios to make a get call to the API
that's specified and so this enables me
to use the same component for both of
those apis by passing the API in as a
prop I then get the data back and can
use that within my component
then down here this is the actual
content that's going to be displayed I
just have which API is coming from from
data.api and then the time stamp that
was returned in data.now while it's
still fetching it will just have it will
have this placeholder updating text
here at the bottom is the content of our
app itself we wrap it in this query
client provider that just enables us to
use the functionality within that react
query package
we've got our static header and then two
instances of the current time component
one where we're passing it the golang
path one where we're passing at the node
path it is important to call out here
that within my v.config I have these
proxies set up such that API golang is
sent to localhost 8080 where the goaling
application is running and then API node
is passed to localhost 3000 where the
node API is running that's pretty much
it for this configuration hopefully that
didn't seem too overwhelming it's quite
complex trying to run all of these
Services independently and get them all
talking to each other
that's kind of the whole point of this
course right I want to avoid having to
set up each of these Services separately
and avoid the complexity of needing to
match the right version on your system
versus my system and Mac versus Linux
versus Windows Docker is going to help
us simplify this dramatically and so as
we progress through the rest of the
course we're going to take these
components containerize them and then
learn how to run those containers how to
configure them properly and how to set
up a development environment such that
we can very easily go from zero to
rapidly developing and iterating on our
applications all within a containerized
setup
and what I really tried to do with this
application is have each component be
the absolute minimum complexity while
still giving us that application the
networking the configuration be
representative of what you would see in
a modern day web technology company and
so ideally don't get bogged down with
any of the particular applications
themselves but just try to understand
here is the core of what it's doing we
have our client on the front end it's
calling those two apis so we need the
networking to be set up properly there
those two apis instantiating clients and
connecting to that database and making a
database call so we need to handle those
credentials properly as well as the
networking between them
and just generally we need to have our
environment set up for each of these
applications to run as desired
now that we have our example application
we can go through the process of
containerizing it
and what that means is that we're going
to create a specification and then we're
going to build from that specification
our container image
the specification is what is known as a
Docker file so it's a text document
that's going to have all the commands
that we need to create and assemble this
image you can think of it almost like a
recipe for your application you're going
to start with some base layer like an
operating system you install your
language runtime and any dependencies
and tooling associated with it then you
would install your application
dependencies you might set up your
execution environment with certain
environment variables and then finally
at the very end you're going to run some
command that starts your application
now this Docker file is paired with what
is called a build context so we write
all of our instructions in the docker
file and then the build context is
generally a folder or a directory on
your local system containing all of your
source code it can also be a URL so you
can pass like a GitHub a public GitHub
repo as a build context and we take
these two things together and run the
docker build command and with those
information Docker is able to go off
follow the instructions in the docker
file and produce a container image
I'll call out one additional file that's
important to know about and that's a
Docker ignore file within your build
context you can include this dot Docker
ignore file as the name suggests you can
tell Docker to ignore certain files so
let's say we've installed the node
modules locally we definitely don't want
to copy those into the Container image
because we're going to install them
within the docker file and we could have
incompatibilities from the installation
on our host system to that within the
container and so with this as sort of
the high level framework let's go ahead
and start writing some Docker files for
our example application as we go about
writing our Docker files this page
within the docker documentation under
docs.doccer.com engine reference Builder
lays out all of the valid commands that
you can use within a Docker file the
format is actually relatively simple if
we use a hash that's a comment we'll
there's a Convention of using all caps
for the instruction and then we'll pass
arguments after that instruction so for
example we can have a comment saying
what this step is doing then we can use
the Run command which is going to run
this during the build phase and then
Echo something out if we scroll down
here on the right you can see all the
different options that you can pass with
the Run command
as well as all the other commands that
are valid we're going to use a number of
these and I'll try to call out all the
ones that you're going to need to know
along the way
so let me just jump into the code editor
and I will create a Docker file in my
API node subdirectory
and you might notice that I have the o5
module as well as the o6 module I have a
whole bunch of Docker files here that
show kind of the sequence of events that
we're going to go through but just for
purposes of demonstrating building it
out I'm going to put it in the o5
directory
and generally you would want to do this
you would want to put your Docker file
in the place where your code is living
let's think about what that recipe might
be for my node.js based application I
need to start with some Linux
distribution and so I'm
let's just use Ubuntu so I'll use the
from instruction and then I'll specify
an image name
so Ubuntu
we also then are going to need to
install the node.js runtime and I can
use the APT package manager to do that
so I use the Run instruction which is
going to run this command during the
build phase I'll do apt update
uh that'll grab all the latest metadata
from the package manager so that I can
find the correct package
and then I'll do run apt install node.js
and let's just execute the build now
just to make sure these steps are
working properly I'll navigate to API
node
and then to build this I can just do
Docker build with a period I didn't
specify a name of a Docker file because
it's the default is to use dockerfile
with no extension I pass my current
directory a period as my context
so it looks like
it failed because that apt install
command is interactive and so I need to
pass it a dash dash a dash Y and that'll
override that question and automatically
install so let's try building it again
now it looks like it's installing
node.js
and you can see each of our steps we
started one of three we've we pulled
that Ubuntu Public Image then step two
of three we ran that run apt update and
then in three of three we installed
node.js and so if we think back to that
Union based file system each command in
this Docker file is adding a new layer
to that system and so oftentimes we want
to minimize the number of layers and
think about because Docker is caching
Those Behind the Scenes how we can avoid
invalidating the cache one such method
that we can do to improve this already
would be to
run these on the same line so rather
than rather than doing the APT update
and then the APT install we can combine
them into a single command here
and so now those two actions will get
combined on that single layer
okay great so now how are we going to
get our application code into this
container image and for that we're going
to use the copy command so this allows
us to copy either from our host system
or later we'll see how to copy from
another container image during the build
and so I'll copy and I'm just going to
copy my entire current directory into
the image we're going to improve upon
this later but but this is just a simple
way to do it for now and so with that
we'll have our source code within the
container
then I can run the npm install
and that will go off and grab all of my
dependencies so let's just make sure
this still builds
okay so npm was not installed so we also
need to install npm
okay and now that we had npm installed
in the system we're able to execute our
npm install command
and then the final step that we need to
do for this Docker file is to add a
command that will be executed at runtime
when we create a container the format
for this is we'll have an array of
strings and so in this case I'll do npm
run
Dev
and that would run my Dev script from
the package.json file when we started up
so I'll build it once more
and one thing to note here is that I
change something in my Docker in my
Docker context and now when I'm
rebuilding it it's executing run npm
install and that's because this copy
step came before the npm install and so
making that modification actually
invalidated the cache
and so it was much slower to build
because we had to run npm install and
download all those dependencies we'll
address that in a future Improvement
now in order to be able to execute this
Docker build can't this Docker build
command builds it but doesn't actually
tag it with any name and so
I could run this
I could reference it with this shot
directly
or I can add a dash T and I'll call this
API node and call it version zero
now I can do docker image list
and we can see API node version 0 was
built a minute ago
and look it's almost a gigabyte in size
now this Docker file while functional is
terrible there are so many ways upon
which we can improve it and now let's go
through and think about what those are
first of all
starting from Ubuntu and then installing
node and npm while we can do that there
are a bunch of official images on Docker
hub for language runtimes so if I go to
Docker Hub and search node
it'll pull up the official image
and so this is a Docker official image
it has that tag it's been downloaded
over a billion times and has over 10 000
stars and they maintain all of these
different tags for different variants
and so if I do this I can remove this
install command and instead go straight
from node and so let me build that again
as version one
and so for any runtime any language
runtime there's probably an official
image that will maintain all the
different versions you need and have
things pre-configured out of the box so
usually you can start from node or from
python or from golang
and we'll see that when we go to the
golang API as well
now you'll also notice that I don't have
a tag specified here I have the image
name but no tag and what that'll do
behind the scenes is it just assumes
that I mean node latest that's a problem
because that node's latest tag can
change based on
the images that the maintainers of that
image have pushed most recently
and so rather than tag it with latest
it's much better practice
to specify an exact version and so what
I'm going to do is look here at the
versions Alpine is a Linux distribution
it's quite small and therefore good for
building Docker images because as we're
thinking about final image size That
Base image that we're building from
that's the smallest we can get and so
it's really important to choose a small
base image it's also good from a
security perspective to have fewer
utilities and dependencies installed
from the get-go and so instead of using
node with no tag or node latest I'm
going to use
node 19.6.alpine
and so I'll build that once again
and I'll call that one API node2
and just to show you what a huge
difference that makes in terms of image
size we can do Docker image list
and scroll up here and we see node 0 was
the ubuntu-based one this tag number one
was the just node latest version so
that's over a gigabyte and then and by
using that Alpine base image we've cut
our image size by a factor of five and
we're down to 200 megabytes however you
will notice that each time I'm building
it's taking quite a while and the reason
for that is I'm copying in my entire
Source directory before I do the npm
install so I keep invalidating the cache
and so the way that we can get around
that is that rather than
copy the entire Source directory right
away we can first
copy in only the package.json and
packagelock.json files and then do npm
install and after that copy the
remainder of our source code
by doing it this way this layer will
only be invalidated if we change our
dependencies and so I'll call that tag
number three
it's also best practice to specify
what's known as a working directory
within the image that's the default
directory in the file system where
commands in the build process are going
to be run or the command at the end that
we're running is going to be executed
when we instantiate the container we do
that using the worker instruction
and this is going to depend on the
convention of your language or framework
that you're using in this case for node
apps I like to use user Source app
that's not really going to change
anything about our system except that
now within the image instead of copying
all of our code to the root directory
and installing the node modules there
it's going to copy things to this path
which just keeps things a bit more
organized
also I have things within
my API node directory that I don't want
to be copied into this image there's two
things that I can do to help avoid that
one I can add this Docker ignore file
and in this case I'm specifying the node
modules directory so I don't my I don't
want the node modules that I've
installed on my Mac OS system to be
copied in because that would cause
conflicts and so by putting it in the
docker ignore file those will not get
copied in I also can specify let's say I
only want to copy in my source code
directory I don't need to copy in the
remainder of this stuff into the image
and so I can do that
here I'm only copying the source code
directory into the Container image
let's build it once more we'll call
those four
now because this is eventually going to
be a production container image I don't
want to be running npm run Dev here
instead I want to run node and then
point it to my index.js file and so
rather than execute this npm script I
will just say node
and then index.js
and so that index.js file on my host
system is in the source subdirectory but
because I'm copying from source to my
working directory it will be directly it
will be in that working directory and I
can just call it that way
so I'll call that one five
and now most of the improvements that
we've been making so far either have to
do with image size build speed
Etc another key aspect that we can
influence by changing and improving our
Docker file is the security of our
container and so one very useful
technique is to execute as a non-root
user and so this node.js official image
happens to have a user defined in it
called node
and so by by using the user argument and
passing it the name node it will use
that user now that I've done that though
I want to make sure that the files I'm
copying in here are owned by that node
user so I can use the Chon command node
node and now all those source files
being copied in will be owned by that
user and be accessible by that user
so I will copy this tag this as number
six now many node.js applications look
for an environment variable called node
EnV and so we can use the end argument
or instruction
and set node end and we'll set that
equal to production if it's set to
production the application or the
package will behave one way if it is
unset or set to anything other than
production it will run in a development
mode and we don't want that for a
production image so by specifying this
environment variable here that can be
very useful
I'm also going to change from an npm
install command to an npm CI command
and I'm going to add the only equals
production option
and so these two things together the the
npm clean install is what CI stands for
uh we'll look for the specific versions
from my package.lock file and install
exactly those versions so it gives a
much more repeatable build and the dash
only production option says don't don't
install my Dev dependencies so I have
things like jest and node mod and my Dev
dependencies within the package.json
since I don't want those or need those
in my final production image I can use
this dash dash only flag to achieve that
so let me call this number seven
and now I know as the person who wrote
this app that it is expecting to run
either on an environment variable named
Port that it loads or it will default to
Port 3000 I'll add a command called
Expose and just say 3000 and so this
doesn't actually change anything about
how the container image behaves or the
container this is just documentation for
users of this image that it is expecting
to run on Port 3000 that way they know
to publish that port to the host or to
whatever system they need to so they can
get traffic to the app and now there's
one additional place where I can make
improvements and that's in this step and
this again is going to be to improve our
build speeds there's the option to mount
a cache location to store information
from this step specifically
so I'm adding
this Mount type cache with a target of
this location and then I'm setting I'm
telling npm to use that location to
store its cache dependencies before
calling my npm CI call and what that
does is
if previously if I invalidated the layer
7 it would download all of my
dependencies from the internet from npm
and then install them now if I've run
that once before on my system it will
only have to download the new
dependencies from the internet it can
use that local cache to install the rest
of them from that cache avoiding an
extra download and just speeding up the
process and so I'll call that API note
8.
and so with that we have a Docker file
that I'm pretty happy with we took that
initial naive implementation and
improved it along so many dimensions
both from repeatability
size of the image avoiding invalidating
the cache so that future future builds
are faster documentation around ports
and this the fact that this is a
production image using the production
command that makes the most sense and
using a non-root user within the
container now let's take a look at sort
of the image sizes as we progress there
I'll grab for API node
and we can see we started off with those
huge images when we moved to the Alpine
based node image as our as our base it
cut it by a factor of five I believe
this small jump was when we when we
added the dash only production option to
our npm install command so there were 30
megabytes of Dev dependencies that were
previously getting installed and then
the the change we made there at the end
where we set the cache for the npm
system uh saved us a couple of megabytes
and so huge improvements along size
security Clarity and this is a Docker
file that that I would be happy to use
now if you look in the repo on GitHub
you won't actually see a Docker file in
module five that's because I've included
them here in module six and I've got
each of the sequential steps that we
took improving it with comments
describing the commands that we built up
along the way now that we have a
container a Docker file and a container
image for the node.js API that we're
happy with let's go ahead and shift
gears into the golang API and build one
out for that
now similarly to with node I could start
from Ubuntu but instead I'm going to use
the official golang image
and because we're doing it the naive way
we're not going to tag it we're going to
use that latest we're going to use that
latest one and then we'll come back and
improve just to see how much to see how
much that saves in our final image size
but yeah we can start from that go
laying image
and so I can build it with just that
from command this image would be
identical to the Upstream base image at
that point like with node we want to set
a working directory in this case I'm
just going to set it as app
we need to get our source code into the
image so again we can use the copy
command let's just copy it all
we're going for the the simple naive
implementation first and then we're
going to improve upon it to get the
dependencies installed I will use the
Run command with go Mod download so that
will look at our go mod file and
download those dependencies finally we
can set our Command
and for this I'll use go
run
and then point it at my
main.go file
so this should be a functional Docker
file
and there we go let's do a Docker image
LS and we'll grab for API go Lang okay
again
over 900 megabytes over the set of
improvements that we're going to make
we'll improve that quite a bit I will
add
uh tag zero to that one just so we can
remember it
we never want to use an untagged or
latest image and so we'll add the
1.19-alpine tag
and then we can rebuild with that and so
already just that has cut our image size
in half which is great but we're not
going to stop there
just like how with node we didn't want
to run our npm run Dev script because
that's a development specific thing here
go run actually builds and runs our
application and rather than doing that
we would much prefer to build our
application in the docker file and then
at runtime we can just call that built
binary and so instead add a run command
I will do go build Dash o API golang
that's going to create a binary called
API golang from our main.go file and
then rather than use this as our Command
we can just run API golang
we'll call this number two
this change means that every time we
start up our container application we no
longer need to build it because it's
already built so we're just shaving off
time that it would take in that
container boot up process
at this point I'll also point out the
docker ignore file that I'm using for
this project I've added the make file
the readme and
uh any Docker file that I create to the
docker ignore those are files that are
that do not need to be in the image and
so this prevents when I make that copy
command from invalidating the cache each
time I change the docker file each time
I add something to the readme ETC now
similar to node we don't want to
invalidate the cache here before we
download the dependencies because then
we'll end up downloading those
dependencies way more often than we need
to and so I'm going to move this copy
command after
and instead we can just copy the files
that contain the references to our
dependencies and so that's the go mod
file
indygo.sum file and we'll copy those
into the current directory
I'll call that number three
with that change we can make changes to
our source code without invalidating the
cache before downloading dependencies
and so each build would be much quicker
and now at this point we're going to add
a new technique that I haven't shown yet
and that's something called multi-stage
builds and these can be super powerful
because it allows us to have within a
single Docker file multiple individual
stages that are building separate
container images now for a language like
golang that is compiled this is super
helpful because we need a lot of
dependencies in the build stage where
we're using them to build our code
however the end result is this binary
that can have all of its dependencies
statically linked we don't need any of
that golang tool chain in the final
image I'm going to label this stage as
build and then I can add a new stage
down here
and in this case I can use a special
image called scratch
and this is a official image that we can
look at here let me just go to Docker
hub
it's a Docker official image it really
has nothing in it the only thing that it
has in it is a valid root file system
it's effectively a no op that gives us a
place to start from that we can copy our
binary into and so now since we're
starting from that scratch image we can
use a copy command but in this time
instead of copying from the host we're
going to copy with a dash dash from
equals build and so now this is saying
copy from this container image that was
built in that first stage
and now we want to copy the slash app
slash API golang
and we need to use slash app because
that was our working directory that
where that binary ended up all right we
want to copy that too I'll just copy it
to API golang
and so it will be at the root
path
and then we can call it from our uh we
can call that
when we instantiate a container from
this image however that wouldn't work as
is because this build command didn't
statically compile all those
dependencies in so I need to modify that
build command
and I can do so like this
and so I've added these LD Flags to
change the link mode to external and set
the compilation to static I've also
added this netgo tag I found that I
needed to add that to make my networking
within the image work properly however
by doing that I now get this compiled
binary that has all of those
dependencies built in
and I can run it from the scratch image
so if I do this and build it I'll call
this one four
oh but when I built it I ran into an
issue where my build stage didn't have
the compiler required to do that static
linking and so one way that I could fix
this is to use Buster which is a Debian
based distribution my Alpine image while
it was smaller that doesn't matter as
much anymore because this build stage is
separate from my Deployable stage I'm
going to end up using this image to
deploy and so even if this is slightly
larger in my build stage my Deployable
stage should still be quite a bit
smaller let me try building that again
and so that can be a trick when you're
using multi-stage Docker files is you
care a little bit less about the size of
your intermediate stages and so you can
use an image that has more build tools
available or a slightly easier to work
with and so in this case we're using
that Debian based image in the build
stage and then we're still getting the
benefits of that tiny scratch stage for
the output
so if I look at the image sizes here
we've now jumped from 500 megabytes to
that statically compiled one is only
16.8 megabytes so huge benefit by using
that multi-stage build compiling to a
static binary and then copying that into
a separate stage
a couple things I want to add to set up
my production environment and that is an
environment variable for gin which is
the API framework that I'm using and so
I'll do gin mode and set that to release
so similar to node and production gin
behaves differently whether or not this
environment variable is set and then I
know that this app is going to run on
Port 8080.
and so I'll set expose 8080 there as
documentation for the end user
I'll build this as tag number five
and then the final Improvement that I'm
going to make is similar to the cache
Mount that I used for npm but we can do
the same thing for our go Mod download
command and so I can add a cache Mount
here
um this slash go package mod is and the
root cache go build are the two
directories where those dependencies get
cached as they're being downloaded and
installed and so adding this can just
speed up subsequent builds accordingly
so as my final image I'll call this six
I guess one final thing that we can do
from a security perspective like our
node-based API we would prefer to use a
non-root user within the side of the
container and so to do that we're going
to need to set up that user in our build
stage and then copy a couple of files
into our release stage that will allow
us to use it
I can do that with the Run user add
command and I'll do user ID 1000 and I'm
calling it non-root then in my release
stage I will need to copy the password
file from my build stage so I can do
copy from build slash Etsy password that
will copy that in
and then I can do user non root
and that will use that user
we'll call that number seven
now in this case whether that was
necessary or not is a little bit
questionable because we only have our
golang binary that's the only thing
pretty much in that scratch image the
attack surface area is quite small and
so maybe it's over the top to add this
non-root user but I just wanted to
highlight the fact that we can't do it
and it provides one additional layer of
protection to our sort of Defense
in-depth approach when it comes to
security
and so with that we have a Docker file
for our golang based API that I'm
relatively happy with again we've pinned
our our base image we've used a non-root
user we're avoiding invalidating the
cache when possible we're leveraging
this cache Mount to speed up future
builds uh we're compiling to a static
binary and leveraging a multi-stage
Docker file to really take advantage of
a much smaller image in the end and
we're setting up our final environment
with things like this environment
variable and the expose command for the
Port that we plan to run on and so with
this we can create a container for our
API that's both small and secure
just like before if you take a look at
the repo you won't find a Docker file in
the module 5. instead I have created a
number of Docker files here in module 6
that walk through all the steps that we
just went through and have commentary
around why we're doing the different
things that we're doing so we've got two
of our three applications containerized
we have the docker files created the
final one that remains is our react
client
so let me navigate to that
and I will create
a Docker file
[Applause]
and with this one the development mode
for a v based react app is going to be a
node.js server serving those files and
so you'll see that our Docker file looks
pretty much identical to the one that we
had for the node-based API so this would
be a valid Docker file for that
again let me build it so I'll do Docker
build Dash D we'll call it client react
zero
and we'll build that
as always before that even finishes
building I'm going to add a pinned
version of that base image for
repeatability and image size in this
case we're not gonna we're gonna end up
using a multi-stage build as well so I'm
going to use a dbn based base image just
because it's a little easier to work
with than Alpine sometimes and I'm not
as worried about it since it's not going
to end up in the final image so I'll tag
version one as the one with the the 194
Bullseye tag
similarly our Docker ignore file is
going to have the node modules directory
within it because we don't want to copy
those into our our image
two improvements that we saw with the
node API that we're going to make here
as well is we don't want to invalidate
the cache by copying in our source every
time instead we're going to copy in the
package.json and package lock.json
and then also let's set a working
directory
AS Slash user
slash source slash app
I'll tag that as version two uh changes
like that don't actually modify the size
that much of the final image but it's
just useful to see kind of the
progression
I'm going to use the same cache Mount
approach that we used before to speed up
future installs I will use the npmci
command here
I'm not going to use the dash dash only
production flag because in this case
it's our build stage where we're going
to generate some static files rather
than the final image that we're going to
deploy a container with
and so you'll see here our Command is
still currently npm run Dev that's going
to run a development server that's not
what we want what we actually want to do
is run npm run build which is going to
generate a set of static files HTML
JavaScript and CSS that then we're going
to be able to serve so this will
generate those files I need to name my
first stage because we're using that
multi-stage build approach so this will
be as build
we're going to add a new stage here at
the bottom
and we can use from
nginx
and let's see what version of nginx we
want to use
let's use
1.22-alpine
[Applause]
we're not going to need a command we're
going to use the default nginx command
but in order to make this work we need
to get the files that we built in line
13 and copy them over into this final
release stage
and so to do that we'll use the copy
command we'll specify from build that's
saying from that top build stage look at
the path user Source app so we have our
work directory user Source app and then
the npm Run build command is going to
place those files in a subdirectory
called dist for distribution
and then this path is the location this
is the convention for where you would
store your website files if you're going
to serve them with nginx and so that's
what we're saying there we need one more
copy though and that is to copy in our
nginx config and so our nginx config is
how we're going to set up nginx to serve
our site the way we want it to and so
this is being copied from the host I
have it here let me just walk through
this real quick we've got a few
endpoints set up we've got a ping
endpoint which just returns 200 pong
directly
I also have these two additional
endpoints set up as proxies so if you go
to slash API slash golang that gets
proxied to this address and if you go to
slash API node it gets proxied to this
address and we're going to set up Docker
when we run it to host those two apis at
those paths
within the network that we set up and
then finally the root path if you don't
hit any of those you'll end up here it's
going to serve our react app files from
that directory where I copied them in
the final thing that I'll do is just to
once again have an expose command this
is just going to be an HTTP server so
we're exposing Port 80. that's where
it's expected to listen all right let me
build this as three
and actually this nginx image the
official one runs as root and so one way
to improve that as always is to run as a
non-root user and so there is a another
image that I've found
which should be pretty much identical to
that one let me just search for it here
this nginx Inc nginx unprivileged is a
very popular one it has over 100 million
polls
it's very similar to the official nginx
image with a few minor tweaks around the
default settings including the user that
it is run as and so in this case I'm
going to swap out from that image to
this unprivileged image
and rebuild it once more as tag number
four
and one of the key differences when
you're running unprivileged is that you
can no longer bind to Port 80. you can
no longer bind to any port below 1024 I
believe and so rather than expose 80 the
default here is going to be to run on
Port 8080. and so I'll change that and
with that we can
build it once more
and let's just look at the image sizes
as we progress so we can do
instead of that we're looking for a
client react
we started with a massive 1.16 gigabyte
image then when we switched to the nginx
image it dropped to 23 megabytes the
unprivileged nginx image isn't quite as
optimized I guess so it's 76 megabytes
but I think the Improvement of running
as a non-root user is worth it for for
that extra image size
as with the other projects uh within the
module 6 I have a series of Docker files
listed out here that show the
improvements along the way along with
commentary and so feel free to look at
them and see the differences between
each step why we're making the changes
that we did now going through that
process hopefully it was educational it
might have felt a little bit repetitive
but that's kind of the point we want to
find a set of general principles and
practices that we can apply to any
Docker file for any container image that
we're building and the general approach
that I think about is first we want to
make it work that's kind of the
fundamental thing that needs to happen
that's that naive based Docker file that
just has a few lines gets it running
then we want to think about two things
we want to how do we make this more
secure how do we make it faster to build
so it's easy to work with I've laid out
a legend here that talks about the three
types of improvements that we're making
whether it's impacting the security of
the image the speed with which we can
build build it or the clarity of the
image how clear it is for future
developers who are coming along and
reading it
and so for each of these techniques I've
listed out with the Emojis so that you
can see what they're doing we pin
specific versions within our build this
can impact security speed and Clarity
the base image is a huge one right if we
pin a specific small secure base image
that's a great starting point we can
either use a tag like I was using
1.19-alpine you can also use the hash of
the image itself to use it or a
combination of the two so you could have
the tag and then an at signed and then
shot 256 and then the hash that's
actually kind of The Best of Both Worlds
where you have a human readable version
as well as that immutable hash that will
correspond to a specific version that
can't change you also want to pin
specific system dependencies so if we're
installing something from apt or a
package manager we would want to install
a specific version there so that it
doesn't change on us that can help with
security as well as Clarity so you know
exactly what is going into the image uh
and then application dependencies so
within our package lock Json file within
our go mod or go some files we want to
install the exact dependencies every
time so that we're on not accidentally
changing things from one build to the
next I mentioned this in the pinning of
specific versions but it's worth calling
out again you want to think about what's
the smallest and most secure base image
that I can use that will still be nice
to work with and I can install my app
into it that's going to help both from a
security perspective as well as a speed
perspective because those smaller images
are just easier to move around whenever
we're adding a command to a Docker file
we're adding layers and we want to think
about how do we protect that layer cache
such that
future builds can leverage as much cash
content as possible the general
principle here is to order your commands
by how often they're going to change so
that base image is very infrequently
going to change we want to install our
dependencies before we copy in our
source code so that we don't bust the
cache there we want to use that cache
Mount technique so that it can store
downloaded dependencies locally and
reuse them in the future this next one
is a technique that I didn't actually
highlight in that process it's a
relatively new feature it's an option to
the copy instruction and by using copy
dash dash link it creates a new separate
layer that's not tied to the previous
layers and this is super useful in the
multi-stage build environment if I'm
copying from the previous stage I can
use this such that if I change my base
image on my second stage that won't
invalidate the cache because this
copy.link when I'm copying from that
previous stage it ties it to that layer
stack instead and then the final step is
to combine steps that are always going
to be executed together so that we have
fewer total layers in our image
we also wherever possible want to be
explicit within our Docker files just
for clarity's sake we want to do things
like set that working directory so we
know where within the file system we're
operating
we want to indicate the standard Port
that we're going to be listening on with
that expose command for clarity and we
want to set the environment variables
how we want them with the end
instruction so it'll be automatically
set when we run that container we also
want to avoid unnecessary files in the
container image we can do that in two
ways we can add things to the docker
ignore file so that they don't get
copied in we can also when we issue our
copy command copy specific files or
subdirectories rather than just copying
in the whole build context for security
purposes it's always better to use a
non-root user so we saw how to do that
in a few different cases we also want to
only install production dependencies so
if there's certain things you only need
in your development environment there's
no need to build those into the
Container image we always want to avoid
leaking sensitive information and so a
good example of this that I'll show here
in a minute is if you have a private
repository that you need to log into you
could have private npm packages maybe
you're building a python app and you
have and you have a private python
registry we'll need to pass the those
credentials in a specific way so they
don't get built into a layer within our
container image and then the final one
here is just to leverage multi-stage
builds where it makes sense we saw how
with the golang API we were able to cut
our image from 500 megabytes to just 16
with the react client we were able to go
from that node-based build environment
to that optimized nginx image at the end
I'd save quite a bit of size and just
makes a lot more sense for serving those
static files that are generated as I
built out those images I often chose an
Alpine based base image I was doing that
because of the size however size is not
the only consideration when choosing a
base image for your container it is an
important consideration because the size
of that base image is kind of the lower
bound on the size of your final built
image however you also want to think
about how well that particular
base image supports the language that
you're running in in this case it may
have not been the best choice for a
node.js application if you look at the
official node.js Docker file page you'll
see that Alpine is still considered
experimental and that's because it uses
a different variant of the standard C
library and so there can be subtle bugs
associated with that if your code or the
libraries that you're depending on are
making assumptions about the
implementation details of that core
Library you'll also want to think about
the ergonomics of the image how easy is
it to work with if you need to install
additional packages does it have
utilities built in for debugging Etc and
then finally the security of the image
is another huge consideration things
like the number of cves built in at what
level and the attack surface area if
someone is trying to compromise the
container on the right hand side here
I've listed out some sample images that
you could use for a node.js application
the first one is the default latest tag
which is currently pointing to the 19.8
Bullseye image and Bullseye is a variant
of Debian
uh that one is nearly a gigabyte it has
five critical vulnerabilities in it
generally you wouldn't want to use that
however it is quite easy to work with
you can use the app package manager to
easily install lots of different
Packages
Etc the next one down there is the slim
variant of that so it's still using that
Debian based image it is cut the size by
a factor of four eliminated all of those
critical high and medium vulnerabilities
it still does have some low level
vulnerabilities cves however it's a much
better choice than the full size image
for that reason however because it's
slim it won't have a lot of utilities
built in out of the box and so you may
need to install those if you need them
at either build time or at runtime the
node Alpine image is the one that I was
using in some of the examples it doesn't
have any cves built in it's quite small
however as I pointed out and I actually
learned this after filming that section
it's still considered experimental by
node and so if you go to the repo you'll
notice that I'm using that slim based
Bullseye image for the the base image
there
there's two additional images here at
the bottom that I've listed out the
first one is what is called distro list
that was created by Google as a security
focused image that only contains the
language runtime that you need it
doesn't have any additional things like
a package manager shells built in
ETC and so it is quite small and
reasonably good from a security
perspective however one potential
downside is that it only supports LTS
long-term support variants of node and
so if you want to run on a different
version of node that's not possible it
also if you need to install anything
outside of node there's no package
manager so that could be more difficult
to do the final image that I've listed
there at the bottom is from chain guard
and chain guard is a security focused
Cloud native company they have started
producing and maintaining these base
images for various languages and
runtimes it is quite small as you can
see it's the smallest one listed here it
has no known cves in it and it's
designed specifically with security and
so software provenance we're the source
of any dependencies are coming from
because it is more new and it is really
locked down it may be slightly more
difficult to work with in terms of the
types of packages that are supported and
included if you have particular needs
for your application and so I think as a
general purpose image that's easy to
work with the Debian based variants the
slim variant in particular is quite a
good choice and if you're really looking
to lock down your eventual containers
something like the the chain guard based
image could be a good choice through the
process of building out those Docker
files for the demo application I
highlighted a number of different
instructions however I didn't cover them
all there's a couple of additional
features that I want to call out here
included this dockerfile.sample in the
repo as well the first one is parser
directives so at the very top of your
Docker file there's two things you can
do one you can specify a specific
version of the docker file syntax that's
necessary if you're using some of the
newer features that are not enabled by
default so that copy link that I that I
talked about a minute ago that I think
is in dockerfile version 1.5 so if you
wanted to use that you would need to
have this directive at the top of your
Docker file you can also set an escape
character the default Escape character
is going to be that backslash but if you
wanted it to be something else you could
set it accordingly
the next feature that I'll call out is
label and this is super useful for
including important metadata within the
image manifest for example they're on
line 14 I've included myself as the
author of this Docker file you can add
any arbitrary key and value pair there
are a number of standard specific labels
under org open containers image that
people use including things like authors
version Etc so I would suggest taking a
look at those and deciding which ones
make sense for your images I also
mentioned that sometimes you want to
combine multiple commands into a single
step so they're combined within a single
container layer one nice feature for
doing that is what's called the hear doc
syntax and if we see there on line 20 we
have run and then the less than less
than eof apt update apt install eof
that allows us to write multiple
commands across multiple lines however
they get interpreted as being a single
line within the docker file and so we'll
execute those two things in turn but
they'll be stored within a single layer
within the container container image in
order to avoid
sensitive data from leaking into our our
image at build time we will want to use
the secret Mount type so on line 30
there I have an example of that where
we're mounting in a secret so this in
this case it is a on our local system
it's a file called secret.text and we
can mount that into the file system of
the container at slash container
secret.txt and that will only exist at
build time it will not get included in
the final artifact that is an important
technique to know if you need to use
credentials within your build context
now so far we've been using the CMD or
command option and that specifies the
command that gets run when you create a
container from your image there's an
additional instruction called entry
point which is slightly different and a
bit nuanced as to how these two interact
with each other it can be a little
confusing as to which of these get gets
run in which case if you're building
your own application and it's always
going to be run with the same set of
arguments you want to just place all of
those in the command like we've been
doing however if you're building a
utility where you can pass additional
arguments to The Container at runtime
you'd want to put the executable in the
entry point and then allow people to
append arguments via the command at
runtime when we wanted to get files from
our host system or from an earlier build
stage into our container image we were
always using the copy command there's a
very similar command called add which is
a little more ambiguous and so Docker
generally prefers using the copy command
you may see docker files though that use
add and just know that they perform
almost the same way but there are a
little bit of nuance in the Syntax for
very specific edge cases so just know
that that exists and then the final
thing to call out is there's a
technology called build X which is built
into the docker CLI which allows us to
do a number of things but one of the
very important things is to build and
run multi-architecture images so if I'm
on an x86 based system but you're on An
Arm based system or I want to deploy to
An Arm based system I can use buildx to
build versions of my image that are
compatible with either of those
now I'm not going to go into detail in
this course however I do have a video
that does a deep dive on build X and
building and using multi-architecture
images that I'll link to in that card up
there I will just pull up this
dockerfile.sample and just interact with
it a little bit though
So within module 6 I've got this
dockerfile.sample
and then in my make file I have a couple
of commands that I'll want to show you
here
the first thing that I'm going to do is
make build sample
because it's using that secret Mount
that's a build kit feature that you have
to enable and so by specifying the
environment variable Docker build kit
what equals one I'm able to use that
I'm also setting this base image tag as
a build argument so one important thing
to call out is that within a Docker file
I can use this ARG instruction that will
be an environment variable available at
build time but not available at runtime
and so in this case I'm setting my base
image tag it was going to default to
1904 but I was able to override that
with this space image tag here of 19 3
in my build command
however even though they're not
available at runtime they still exist as
artifacts in the image metadata that's
why we can't pass credentials using this
build Arc approach instead we want to
use the secret Mount approach
now you'll notice that I have both an
entry point and a command here and so
I'm going to run this image and let you
with a few different options and let you
see how that behaves
and so to do that I have this run sample
entry point command
so do you make
which goes off and builds our image
and then it's going to run it in a
number of different configurations if we
run the image with no arguments so if we
just do Docker run and then the name of
our image what do we get out
we get out
hey Team Wave entry point plus command
so with no arguments we get we Echo both
this string and then we get this string
as well so both of those get passed to
the echo command
if we run with an argument so that would
be like a Docker run sample plus
argument now we we still get hey Team
Wave entry point but instead of plus
command we get plus argument so adding
that argument onto my Docker run command
overrode the command that was specified
in my Docker file we also can override
the entry point at runtime and so here
if we do Docker run Dash entry point
Echo sample
that overrides the entry point and it
ignores our Command and so that comes
back with an empty string because we ran
the echo command with no arguments
and then the final case is if we
override the entry point and we pass
additional arguments it's going to it's
going to override the entry point ignore
the command and use the arguments that
are passed at runtime and so with this
command we end up with hey team
overridden entry point plus arguments
hopefully that description shows you how
those two things interact like I said if
you're building your own application
that's not going to be called with
different arguments each time put
everything within that Command Block
it's just simpler and we don't have to
worry about the entry point you're
generally only going to use the entry
point if you're building out a utility
that's expecting additional arguments at
runtime to be passed into that container
now I do have a make Target here to also
demonstrate Building multi-architecture
images so I'll do make build
multi-arch
in this case I have a repo on Docker Hub
called Sid multi Sid Palace multi-arch
test so I can show you that
and this is going to with this dash dash
platform tag it's going to build one
image for amd64 one for arm64 and one
for arm V7 which is a 32-bit arm
architecture
it's going to build that based on the
dockerfile.sample and then it's going to
push it to Docker Hub so if we go here
it is still building
once that finishes building and pushing
we would see an updated tag I last
pushed it 20 to 20 days ago but if I
update this here in a minute it will
update to now
we can see it's working on those
different architectures in parallel
and so behind the scenes build X
and build kit are using
a emulation
technology called Kimu Ki qemu to enable
us to build the an architecture other
than the one that we're actually running
on this this topic is becoming more and
more important as the number of
developers on arm systems with apple
silicon
is increasing and the fact that
arm-based servers in the cloud are
generally quite a bit cheaper than their
x86 counterparts so being able to build
for whatever architecture you want can
increase the likelihood that your team
is all compatible and allow you to take
advantage of some cost savings with your
eventual deployment
so it looks like it is finished so if I
refresh this we should see
that we just pushed a few seconds ago
for all three of these architectures
with that test image
and that concludes our Deep dive on
writing and optimizing Docker files
hopefully you'll be able to take that
knowledge and now apply it to any future
application that you'll need to
containerize
in this portion we focused on building
out those production container images
in later modules we're going to think a
little bit more about how do we modify
these to make them easier to work with
from a development perspective so that
we can have both our optimized
production image as well as a
development and debug or test image that
we can work with on a day-to-day basis
so far in this course we've been
building all of our container image
locally but if you're working on a team
or you need to deploy those containers
somewhere you're going to need to start
using a registry a container registry is
a repository or a collection of
repositories used to store and access
container images so these are generally
stored somewhere in the cloud and they
enable us to take those images that
we've built either locally or within a
continuous integration server push them
to this registry and then other team
members will be able to pull them we can
pull them into whatever deployment
environment we're using repos can be
either public or private so when you go
on Docker Hub and search for those
public images you'll find those but you
can also set them up such that they
require authentication there's many
different container Registries that are
available Docker Hub is a popular one
that is provided by Docker the company
GitHub has its own container registry
Google Amazon Azure they all have
container Registries as well
as I mentioned you can have public or
private container Registries for a
public registry you don't need to
authenticate in order to pull however in
order to push to that registry you would
need to authenticate and for a private
registry you'll need to be authenticated
for both pushing and pulling Docker
desktop has what's known as a credential
Helper and using this when you log into
one of these container Registries it's
able to access system resources such as
on Mac OS it stores the necessary
credentials within your system keychain
so that they can remain secure on your
local system additionally some
Registries May leverage their own
tooling to authenticate for example the
Google container registry uses the
gcloud command line utility to
authenticate your gcp user
to that registry
and works with the docker client to
provide access now I want to demo
building and pushing an image to Docker
Hub and the GitHub registry just to
Showcase how we would do that I'm using
the most simple Docker file you could
imagine here it's just going to have a
base image from scratch I'm putting that
into a Docker file I'm building my
scratch image from that and then I'm
deleting that dagger file just because I
don't want to store an extra file in the
repo so I do make build
we've now built that container image and
it exists locally on my system
in order to push to a remote repo you
have to do two things one you need to be
authenticated that repo and two you need
to tag an image with a tag corresponding
to that repo and so if I go to Docker
Hub I've already created this repo
called my scratch image if we needed to
create a new repo you would click the
create repository button fill out the
name add a description choose if it's
public or private and then click the
create button in this case I've already
created this and so the tag that we need
to use in order to push to this repo is
going to be Sid Palace which is my
Docker Hub username the name of that
image my scratch image and then we can
append additional tags to the end
in order to authenticate to Docker Hub
we would use the docker login command
I've already authenticated so it used
those existing credentials but it would
ask you for your Docker Hub username and
password in order to log in if you
hadn't done so before
so in order to take this image that I
just built and push it to Docker Hub I
need to re-tag it with a tag associated
with that repo so in this case it was
Sid Palace my scratch image uniquely
identifies that repo for Docker Hub you
don't need to
include a prefix you can just use the
username and repo directly and it will
assume that it's Docker Hub if you don't
have a registry prefix in front of it
we'll see that's a little different for
the GitHub one but in this case I'm
using the docker tag command to take my
original tag of my scratch image that I
applied up here add an additional tag of
Sid Palace my scratch image and because
I don't have a colon with a tag version
it's just going to apply the latest tag
to it
I can then push it to Docker Hub and
that will show up
however generally we never want to use
the latest tag and I'm going to talk
about tagging best practices here in a
bit
but it's much better to apply a specific
tag to this so I'm going to once again
take my original tag of my scratch image
apply a new tag which corresponds to my
Docker Hub repo and in this case I'm
adding the tag abc123 as just an example
tag
I can call the docker push on that tag
and it'll get pushed to Docker Hub so
let me just call that make Bush Docker
hub
it tags my images with the necessary
things and then pushes both of those to
dockerhub I can now go to Docker Hub and
if I refresh the page
we can see both that latest tag when I
didn't specify anything as well as my
abc123 tag we're both pushed uh just a
few seconds ago
so that's Docker Hub let's now go
through the process of authenticating
and pushing to GitHub container registry
the process looks quite similar but we
do need to follow the instructions at
this link and so here's a walkthrough of
how to work with the container registry
in particular I want to look at
authenticating to The Container registry
they give some instructions on how to do
this within a GitHub actions workflow
I'm going to use this authenticating
with a personal token option
and so the way that we do this the set
of minimal permissions that we need can
be created using this
URL that they provide
zoom in just a bit I'll say Docker
course
creds it has the Right Packages
permission
now click generate token
don't worry I will delete this token
once I finish recording so I'm going to
export this as my
container registry personal access token
great
and then there was a login command here
yeah so I'm going to Echo that token out
and pass it to the docker login
command specifying that I want to log
into the GitHub container registry.io
registry
so Echo that
looks like our login succeeded and now
just like with Docker Hub I'm going to
re-tag my image using
this repo name and so in this case I
have the same repo name as I had on
Docker Hub but now I'm prefixing it with
ghcr.io which tells it to use GitHub
container registry
again if you don't specify tag it will
default the latest and then down below
I'm tagging it with abc123 and pushing
both of those to GitHub
so I'll do make push GitHub packages
it tag both of them pushed them to
GitHub container registry
and now I can navigate to GitHub
container registry Sid Palace my scratch
image
and we can see we have a latest tag and
an abc123 tag
now let me just go delete those personal
access tokens so I don't forget
and that's under settings
developer settings
personal access tokens tokens
revoke all
so each registry is going to have its
own instructions for logging in so find
the instructions from the from the
registry itself and then follow those
and that'll work with the docker client
to store those authentication
credentials on your system
now I talked about when I was tagging
and pushing those images how if you
don't specify a tag it defaults to the
latest and that's generally a bad
practice you want to have descriptive
tags that tell you what the image
actually is doing it's also important to
note the same image can have many tags
and so for example if we go into Docker
Hub when I last checked on January 30th
all five of these tags Ubuntu latest
Ubuntu 222.04
jammy-22 1130 Jammy and this specific
shot 256 hash all point to the exact
same image and so when we're tagging our
images we can put multiple tags that we
think will be useful to the end user
now ideally you want to treat any tag
except for maybe a temporary one that
you're using for development as
immutable and by that I mean you
shouldn't create a tag push it to Docker
Hub or whatever you're using for your
your registry modify the image rebuild
and tag and then push an overwrite that
can be a nightmare if someone else is
using that image and they could
accidentally get the updated version and
cause issues within their process so you
always want to treat tags as a mutable
where possible the one exception there
is if you're doing something locally and
building it over and over and running it
locally you might not need to change the
tag every time because you're you know
the fact that you're changing it every
time
now usually your images are going to be
built within some continuous integration
system hopefully that's automated and
oftentimes I'll see people use some
combination of a time stamp of when it
was built so maybe like we see up above
that 22 11 30. it was likely built on
November 30th you might put in a build
ID from your continuous integration
system so maybe the GitHub action the ID
of that GitHub action so if you need to
go look and see when it was built you
can see the process that happened the
commit hash of the source code so let's
say I'm building an image based on the
latest commit to my main branch I might
take that that hash from that branch of
the latest commit so that I can very
easily find where in the code base that
build is coming from and then also
oftentimes I'll see people use a semver
release version so like 1.1.0 or
whatever the the latest release version
is
these can be combined in various forms
when I set up an automated workflow with
GitHub actions in the developer
experience portion I'll tag the images
with a bunch of with combinations of a
bunch of these also as we saw when we
pushed to a registry other than Docker
Hub we had to prefix the name of that
registry at the front end of our tag
now that we've built our container
images and learned how to push them to
various container Registries we can move
on to running them and configuring them
to all talk together within Docker up
until this point we've used the docker
run command a number of times to run
containers from third-party images we've
seen this example with postgres a number
of times however there's another way to
run Docker containers that is built into
Docker and that's called Docker compose
behind the scenes they do exactly the
same thing but Docker compose allows you
to specify all of your application
configuration within a yaml file and it
makes dealing with the container
lifecycle much much easier these two
images here on the left hand side shows
the docker run variant the right hand
side does exactly the same thing but
using that compose file instead if
you're just running a one-off container
I think using Docker run is fine but for
our situation where we have multiple
services that need to talk to each other
Docker compose is much more intuitive
and easier to work with I'm going to
show how to do both for our setup
but in most situations you'll be using
Docker compose if you have an
application with multiple containerized
Services I'll also point out this GitHub
repo called composerize which you can
paste in a Docker run command and it
will generate the equivalent Docker
compose file and so if you have a
command that you've been using and you
want to convert that to Docker compose
that could be a very easy way to do that
now there's a ton of different options
and flags that you can use at runtime
with Docker I've tried to pull out here
the most common ones that I use on a
day-to-day basis and let's go through
and test these out and showcase what
they do
the first one is that Dash D which
stands for detached which allows us to
run a container in the background so as
an example I can run
Docker run Ubuntu sleep 5 and it's gonna
take over my shell until that sleep
command exits and then it will return so
after five seconds it's done however if
I'd add a Dash D to that
now it gives me the ID of the container
and runs in the background I can see it
by doing Docker PS
and here we see that Ubuntu container
running my command sleep 99 in the
background
the next one is the dash dash entry
point
option where we can override the entry
point that was defined in the docker
file an example of this by default the
Ubuntu image doesn't have an entry point
and uses bash as its command we can
actually use the entry point
like this to say Docker run entry point
override that with Echo and then we'll
pass the argument hello so when I run
this it should Echo hello back to the
terminal there we go
the third one there dash dash EnV or
Dash e or Dash EnV file is to set
environment variables at runtime so we
could do things like pass and database
credentials or configure anything else
in the environment that we need
to Showcase that one I can do Docker run
dash dash EnV my end equals hello Ubuntu
and then the command I'm going to run is
print end which will print out all the
environment variables in the environment
you can see it has these three
environment variables including the one
that I set at runtime
the init flag is an interesting one some
programs are not designed to be run as
process ID number one which is what
happens by default if you run them in a
container and so if you pass the init
flag with your Docker run command
instead Docker will run its own
initialization script
and that will spawn your process as a
sub process
so for example
I can run Docker Ubuntu PS and that PS
command gets executed as process ID
number one however
if I pass the init flag and run the same
thing we see that this Docker in it is
process id1 and my PS command is process
ID 7. this is helpful if your
application is managing sub processes
itself
passing the init flag can make it easier
to handle forwarding along termination
signals from Docker to the container
the interactive flag or Dash I and the
TTY flag Dash T allow us to have an
interactive TTY session inside the
container
so if I just run Docker run Ubuntu it
will call bash which will exit
immediately
however if I add the dash it Docker run
Dash it Ubuntu
at the dash I will make sure that
standard in remains open and the dash T
will give me a TTY teletype or shell
session with inside the container
and now I have the shell running in the
container
we've seen the dash dash Mount and dash
dash volume
options used quite a bit when we need to
persist data outside of the container
layer in a volume so I'm not going to
demo that one now
the name option gives us the opportunity
to provide a specific name for a
container
otherwise Docker will assign a random
name when the container is started
so I can do Docker run I'm going to use
the Dash D flag so this runs in the
background and doesn't take over my
terminal I'll name the container my
container and then pass it the Sleep 99
command
ah and this actually shows one downside
of using named containers is that you
can't have two containers with the same
name on your system
so before I could run this I would need
to remove that container
now I should be able to run this
and now we have that container in the
background if I do a doctor PS
we can see under names my container
this can be useful if you want to be
able to quickly grab the logs from the
container
you can now address it with the name
rather than the ID that that container
doesn't have any logs because it's just
the Sleep command
but usually I just let Docker manage my
naming for me and do it randomly
the network or net option allows us to
connect to a specific Docker Network so
if I do Docker Network work LS we can
see the different networks on my system
I'm going to add a new one called my
network
with Docker Network create my
Network
now we can see that new my network was
just created and now I can create a
container that attaches to it
and if I inspect that container
with the ID
and graph for Network
we can see it's running in my network
specifying a network like this allows us
to create isolated networks for any for
our applications
rather than just letting
all of the docker containers end up on
docker's default Network in such a way
that they would be able to communicate
with each other
the platform option allows us to specify
which architecture we want to run our
container image
even though I'm on a AMD 64 system I can
run it with this Linux arm64 V8 option
it went off and pulled the arm64 version
and then I'm running this depackage
print architecture command and we can
see that it output arm64.
if I do the same thing but specify Linux
amd64
we get the amd64 result
we've already seen the publish or Dash p
option used quite a bit to connect a
port from our host system to that of the
container
the dash dash restart option there's a
few different options you can have
always unless stopped or Never So if I
specify to restart this container unless
stopped Docker is going to see if it
exits and unless I told it to stop it
will continue to try to restart it so in
this case that bash command the default
for Ubuntu is going to exit Docker is
going to see that and restart it over
and over
so now I can do watch Docker PS and
we'll see
this image is exiting and restarting
exiting and restarting
and then lastly the dash dash RM flag
tells Docker that if the container
process exit it should remove that
container rather than leave it on the
system as a stopped container this can
help alleviate that naming conflict that
we ran into before where the two
containers had the same name if we'd use
the dash RM flag when the previous
container it exited Docker would have
cleaned that up to demonstrate this I
can run one Docker container named this
one will be there
that's going to exit however it should
still remain in the system as a stop
container I'll now run another one with
the dash dash RM flag
called this one will be gone
and now if I do a Docker container list
Dash a
the dash a is necessary because
otherwise it would only show running
containers and I grew up for this one
that should find both of them if they
existed however we only see this one
will be there in the listing
there are way more options than this
including this set which I think you
should be familiar with you may not use
these on a day-to-day basis
the first of which is capabilities add
and capabilities drop this allows you to
specify which Linux capabilities should
be accessible from the container so this
is a security feature where you can what
is allowable within the context of that
container C group parent allows you to
specify which C group ID your container
should be associated with if we think
back to how we can use c groups to
Monitor and limit the resources that the
container has access to this is one way
to specify that directly CPU shares is
another C group related option where you
can specify what percentage
of the CPU Cycles this container should
be able to access
the CPU set option allows you to specify
which cores specifically so if you're
fine-tuning performance and want to pin
a process to only execute on a specific
CPU core you can do so
these next two are related to the
different devices
that the container should have access to
and at what throughput and bandwidth if
we wanted to be able to access gpus with
our container we would want to use the
GPU flag
we can use these health related options
to specify a health check that Docker
will use to periodically ping our
container and make sure it is healthy
like our CPU option we can use this
memory option to specify how much memory
the container process should have access
to if it goes over that limit Docker
will kill it we can use these PID
related options to specify how many
sub-processes our containers should be
allowed to manage the privileged option
pretty much overrides all of these other
Security Options and effectively gives
the container access to all of the
Privileges that it could want the
read-only flag specifies that even the
container layer of the file system
should be read only so if you don't need
to have right access you might want to
set this as another security precaution
the security opt option allows you to
specify either app armor or set comp
profiles that you want to use for the
container when it's run
and then this last one is not one that
you execute at container runtime but is
something you would specify when you're
running Docker D for example if you're
installing Docker engine and that is to
enable namespace remapping for the
user's namespace allowing you to map
from a non-root user on the host system
to a root user inside of your containers
that's just one more layer of defense
against a potential attacker so like I
said these are very useful to know that
they exist however if you're working on
your development system it may not be as
necessary to leverage more of these
Advanced configuration options let's
jump over to our editor and and
configure Docker run commands and Docker
compose configs to run our application
and so I have all of the necessary
commands to do this stored within the
make file here and I'm going to walk
through
how they're all configured and what
their what each of them is doing the
very first thing that we're going to
want to do
is to build a version of our container
image and tag it such that we can use it
in our Docker run commands so this
Docker build all make Target is calling
a Docker build command and then because
I'm located in a different subdirectory
so I'm in the 08 I'm in the module 8
directory whereas we know our Docker
files are contained in the in the module
6 directory and our source code is in
the module 5 directory that's why I'm
having to use this file option and pass
it a context outside of my current
directory if you had your Docker compose
and Docker files living alongside the
code these commands would be somewhat
simpler
so this is going to go off and this
first one is going to build my client
react Docker file number three and so if
you remember as we're building up our
Docker files at one point for the react
client
we were using the npm Run Dev script and
so that's actually using V to serve a
development copy of our front end so
we're going to build one image with that
Docker file we're also going to use the
final the final react client Docker file
where we're copying a a built version of
our front end app into an nginx based
container image so we'll have one tagged
client react nginx based on that image
we'll also build our node-based API
using the final Docker file that we came
up with and then we'll build our golang
API as well using that final Docker file
that we came up with for that one so let
me just do make docker
build all
and that will go off and build
those four images
I did clear my image cache so this is
going to take some time to build from
scratch all of these images
however in the meantime I can walk
through the docker run commands that
we're going to have to use to spin up
these containers so I'm going to start
by creating a Docker Network and so by
default there's a number of Docker
networks on the system let me just show
those now
so if I do Docker Network LS
we can see these are all the default
networks that are created
we have a bridge Network we have a host
Network and we have an empty null
Network
if I don't specify a network it's going
to get attached into this default Bridge
Network however I want to create an
isolated Network for my application and
so for that I'm creating a network
called my network
so I'll do just that
I can do Docker Network create my
network and now if I list them again
we can see my network and by default it
uses that bridge driver which is what we
want in this case the first container
that we're going to run is the postgres
container we've seen this command a
number of times the only difference here
is that I've added the dash dash Network
option and passed it the name of my
network and added the restart unless
stopped command to tell Docker to
restart it if it were to crash this Dash
D flag will run this in the background
we can see
that postgres image is running in the
background I could look at the logs if I
wanted with Docker logs and then the ID
we can see it started up and it's ready
to accept connections
it looks like all of my four custom
container images have now built so I can
walk through and execute the various
commands such that those containers will
start up as well I'm going to start with
API node so I'm going to work from the
database forward so we'll have Docker
run again we're going to run in the
background with the Dash D flag I'm
giving it a name I'm giving it a name
here so that I can have another make
Target that will clean up those
resources afterwards I'm putting it on
that same network so that it will be
able to talk to my database
I'm passing it this database URL and so
I've specified that environment variable
here and one important thing to note is
that I gave the postgres container the
name DB and then I've also added this
dash dash link DB option referencing the
name of my postgres container and that
gives me an alias with which I can
address my database container and that
is what is used here in my connection
URL I should now be able to run Docker
run
for my node container
we can see API node and postgres at this
point it looks like my node container is
crashing for some reason so let's look
at the logs here
Docker logs
so I wonder if this string is somehow
getting escaped improperly so let me try
again
um
Docker stop
API node
docker remove API node
uh it's because I copied and pasted this
in without setting that environment
variable
export
database URL equals that now if I run my
container it should be able to pick up
that environment variable and pass it in
so I can do Docker BS
it is no longer restarting and so I
should be able to access on Port 3000 my
API so let's make sure that is working
and so it looks like my node API is
working properly
for the golang docker run command looks
pretty much identical to the API node
one except the name is updated and the
image is updated we're still passing
that link option so that we can
reference the database in the same way
and so let's start up our golang image
it is now up let's switch over I know
that one is running on 8080.
okay golang is working properly
and now we need to get our two front end
containers so we're gonna have the one
running nginx and the one running Veet
we'll start with the Veet one one thing
to note is that my Veet config inside of
Docker needs to be slightly different
than my vconfig outside of Docker let me
just compare the two so I'll select for
compare
and then here I will
compare with selected
and you can see when I was running these
directly on my host without Docker I was
able to
my proxy was set up to just forward
these to localhost 8080. now that I'm
inside of that Docker Network
I'm and I'm passing the the link option
instead of referencing on localhost I
need to reference them by the Alias for
that container so in this case it'll be
API golang and API node
and the way that I get this updated Veet
config into my container at runtime is
via a bind Mount so I'm using the dash V
option to specify that with my present
working directory and then a relative
path to client react vconfig.js and I'm
mounting that to the same location that
the other one would have already been
located and this will overwrite the one
that was in the container image with the
one on my host system at that bind Mount
location
I'm linking this both to API node and
API golang because I'm talking to both
of them
and then I've referenced my name as well
as my image name down here in the
command
so I can run this
[Applause]
okay it's been up for one second so
let's go to 5173 which is where I'm
publishing that for
we can see it loading properly that's
awesome
and then the final container that I want
to run is going to be by nginx based
front end where I took my react app I
built those files and then copied them
into an nginx based image
almost identical to the Veet one with
the one difference being I don't need a
bind Mount because the nginx config that
I wrote was already designed to work
within this containerized setup I'm also
going to port forward from localhost 80
to 8080 within inside the container
which is where that unprivileged user
from my nginx base image is going to
bind to by default
I'll run that
and now if I navigate to just localhost
80.
or by default if I don't specify a port
it will default to 80. it is working
properly
and so with these with all these
commands I can now spin up my
application and spin down my application
very easily I've added this Docker stop
make Target that will stop all of those
name containers I've added this Docker
remove one that will clean up those
stopped containers off of my system and
delete those as well as delete that
Network
and so I'll do that now
and so now none of those containers are
running anymore
in my opinion having all these Docker
run commands with all these different
flags stored in a makefile is pretty
clunky and hard to deal with hard to
modify hard to reason about luckily for
us Docker compose exists and gives us a
much nicer interface with which to do
this exact same thing
so I'll pull up this Docker compose file
I'll also show you that composerize tool
so let me just go to
composerize
zoom in a bit
paste in my command click output
and so we see my postgres command
gets translated into this compose file
where we have our services in this case
it's named postgres we've named the
containerdb
we're specifying the network we're
passing in environment variables we're
configuring the volume we're setting
ports we're setting which ports to
publish the restart option and the image
I've gone ahead and done this for all of
those commands that we had and that
generated this Docker compose.yaml file
the latest version for Docker compose is
3.9 so if you're creating a new Docker
compose file and want to take advantage
of the latest and greatest features you
may as well specify 3.9 and then within
here I've got one block for each of my
different services so I'll start with
client react Veet and we can specify
both an image as well as a build context
and so Docker compose can handle not
only running our our containers
but can also handle building them based
on a context that's specified so in this
case it's pointing to module 5 where the
source code lives as well as a Docker
file and here it's pointing to module 6
where the docker files live where the
docker file lives
this init true is the equivalent of a
dash dash in it in the docker run
command again we've got our bind Mount
here specified for the Veet config I did
something slightly differently with the
networking here I have two custom
networks I have a front-end Network and
a back-end Network and so because my
react app only needs to talk to my apis
and should never need to talk directly
to the database I've specified that
those are attached to the front-end
Network my react app and the two apis
and then I have a backend Network which
my two apis and the database are
connected to and so that just gives me
even more fine-grained control over
which Services can talk to which my
nginx based service looks very similar
the main difference being I'm pointing
to a different Docker file and port
forwarding to a different port
my node API again quite similar I will
call out I've added this depends on DB
option and that
tells Docker compose that wait until
you've started up the DB container
before you spin up the node container
as I mentioned it's the API layer is
connected to both the front end and the
back end Network so we can have a
listing of multiple networks here that
this container should be attached to
pretty much the same thing for the go
link service
and then finally the DB service
which we're specifying that password
it's only attached to the backend
Network we've got our volume Mount at
the known location where postgres stores
its data and then we're using that
public 15.1 Alpine image as our
container image
down here at the bottom we specify our
different volumes in this case I have my
PG data volume that's getting used for
postgres and I specify my two networks
because I haven't specified any
additional data about these networks
they will use that default type of
bridge which is the desired network type
for this situation now with this all
defined in this yaml file
interacting with it is super easy let's
say I want to build all those containers
I can do Docker compose build
and it will look at the different build
sections for each service with the
context and the docker file and go off
and build those for me now if I want to
run them I can just do Docker compose up
and it's going to run all five of those
containers and log out to the console
from them all with color coding for each
so I can see now I'm attached all my
containers are running if I then go and
load the page so in this case I opened
up the nginx based front end off screen
and we can see the logs coming from the
nginx container
followed by the log from the golang
container where
the front end made a request there
followed by the log to the node
container where the front end made a
request and so you can see this can be
very valuable
and help us to see what's going on
within our containers by attaching to
the logs in this way
when we did our Docker run command we
could have not used the detached option
and instead had terminals connected
everything but with Docker and compose
it's just much easier to manage within a
single terminal
if I wanted to I could run these in the
background with the Dash D flag I could
do Docker compose Dash up
d
and we can see it's created all those in
the background
if I then wanted to stop I would do a
Docker compose stop
and because my Docker compose file is
named as such that's the default if I
named it something else I would need to
pass in a reference to that file with my
Docker compose command just like when we
run a docker
build command if we have a Docker file
in the non-default location we need to
pass that Dash F flag
and so hopefully you can see the power
of a Docker compose setup like this
you'll be able to go to the GitHub repo
clone it navigate to module 8 run a
Docker compose up build and it will
literally build all the necessary images
and run it on your system and you'll
have this application running in less
than five minutes and you can see
exactly how everything is configured
within this one file and so this can be
a super powerful tool for you and your
team in setting up a common shared
environment so that's easy to build and
iterate on your applications when we go
to deploy the application and work on
improving the developer experience we'll
make some modifications to this and
change the config a bit but I think this
is a great starting point that hopefully
highlights many of the different options
that you'll use when you're running
containers for your multi-service
applications
since many of those more advanced
runtime options are security related it
seemed like a good time to do a little
bit of a deep dive on container security
and this I think is my favorite of the
memes that I created for the sections of
this course just because something is
running in a container doesn't
inherently make it secure depending how
you configure things at runtime it may
be secure or it may not be so here if
you specify user equals root the
privileged option and connect it to the
host Network you're removing almost all
of the security boundary that a
container would provide it's about as
secure as using that Cheeto as a lock
there's two primary components to
container security the first one is
security of the image itself so as
you're building the image what features
are you using and how are you
configuring things to make sure that
your image is secure a big part of that
are the software dependencies that are
installed within your image and what
attack surface area exists that a
potential hacker could exploit the other
key area to think about container
security is at runtime so if someone
were to successfully compromise your
container because of some vulnerability
that you built in
what would they be able to do would they
be able to escape the container and move
laterally to compromise the host or
other containers or would they mostly be
stuck and confined within the container
because you configure the runtime
security appropriately
some of my main things to think about
when you're considering image security
are how do you keep the attack surface
area as small as possible one way to do
that is to use minimal base images
so the smaller your image
the fewer things installed in it the
less likelihood there is to be a
potential bug that can be compromised
one great source for secure base images
is a company called chain guard which
maintains a set of Base images
specifically with a security Focus as
you're writing your Docker file don't
include things in the final image that
you're not going to need
if it's not needed at production time
don't install it
or use a multi-stage build if you need
it at build time but not at production
time also after you've built your image
there's a number of tools available that
you can use to scan that image for
potential vulnerabilities there's one
built into Docker called sneak there's
another one from Aqua security called
trivi take advantage of these tools
to scan your images and see if there's
potential vulnerabilities and what level
those vulnerabilities are at
this gives you visibility and allows you
to choose if you need to patch them or
if you're willing to accept having some
known vulnerability in your image we saw
this as we were building out our Docker
files ideally you don't want to use a
root user inside the container you want
to use a Linux user with with the
minimal set of permissions to accomplish
the task at hand you should avoid
building things like credentials into
the image itself you should treat your
images as if they're public and inject
any sensitive information at runtime you
also can cryptographically sign your
images to prove who was the person who
built this and that can be useful to
then verify on the other end that an
image is what you expect and finally as
you're choosing which base images to use
make sure to pin at least to the minor
version number if you pin to Major dot
minor but not the patch version
it would allow updates to the patch
version
let's say for bug fixes to be
automatically rolled in but hopefully
not incorporate breaking changes into
your system
alternatively if you really want to lock
down the base image you can use that
image hash
which will always refer to the same
image
on the runtime side of thing we can both
think about the container runtime itself
and the configuration options used for
each container
if we're setting up the docker Daemon
Docker D within Docker engine one good
tip is to use the user namespace remap
option as described in the docs at that
link
to ensure that containers being run are
in a separate username space than the
host system
and then for individual containers we
can set the file system as read-only if
our application doesn't require right
access
we can use the cap drop all option to
remove all capabilities and then add
back anything that we might need after
that
we can limit the CPU and memory to
prevent a denial of service situation
where one process is using too much of
the resources
and then finally we can use Security
Options to set either set comp profiles
or app armor profiles both of which you
can find more information at in the docs
throughout the course I've used a number
of Docker CLI commands as we've needed
them in this module I'm going to
showcase the breadth of commands that
exist and how you can use the help flag
to get additional information
the four main types of Docker objects
that we'll be interacting with are
images containers volumes and networks
all of which we've seen so far in the
course
for any Docker command we can do Docker
dash dash help
and it will give us information about
all of the sub commands as well as a
brief description of what those commands
do
in this case let's look at the commands
associated with Docker images
Docker images Docker image help
and when you see all the sub commands
associated with Docker image
we've seen the build command quite a bit
it's how you take a Docker file and
build an image from it the history
command shows the steps that were used
to build that image so I have a Docker
file here
[Applause]
that is just from Ubuntu 2204 run Echo
hello command Echo goodbye and I built
that into a image tagged with the tag
New Image so let's do Docker image
history on that new image
and we can see
my command is here at the top that was
the last step in my Docker file I've
echoed hello here as the previous step
and then these steps are the steps that
were used to build that Ubuntu base
image so for example I can do Docker
image history on it
and we'll see these steps within that
history and so Docker history can be a
good way to explore the steps that were
used to build a container image
the inspect command will show a whole
bunch of detailed information about
images it can actually be quite
overwhelming so we can do inspect on
that same image
and we get this big Json dump
with a whole bunch of metadata
associated with that container image
the import command allows us to take a
tarball and create an image from it
honestly I've never used that before
the load command similarly can take a
tar archive that was generated using
Docker save on a container and create an
image from it I don't find that very
useful all my images I'm generally
building from a Docker file
image LS will list all the images on our
system
and so as you can see I have a whole
bunch here some with tags some without
tags
uh prune is a great way to clean up
those old images if I wanted to clean up
my images I would do Docker image prune
it would remove any image not associated
with a container
that's what it means by dangling images
I'll skip that for now
the pull command we've seen is how we
can pull an image from a registry
we haven't used it directly that much
because when we do a Docker run if the
image doesn't exist it will first
execute a pull
but if I did want to execute that I
could do Docker image pull and then an
image name and tag and it would go off
and pull that from the registry
push likewise pushes are our built
images to a registry we've seen that one
quite a bit so far
if I want to delete a single image
rather than using prune to delete them
all I can delete just one with Docker
image remove new image for example
now it's untagged and deleted from my
system
the save command can take an image and
dump it out to a tar archive this could
be useful if you wanted to have if you
want to be able to explore the file
system outside of a container I haven't
found this to be that useful in my
workflows
and then finally we can use the docker
image tag command to tag an image with a
new tag
so I could do Docker image tag Ubuntu
22.04 my Ubuntu tag
ger image list grab my
Ubuntu
and we can see I now have an image which
is based on that Ubuntu 22204 but it has
my custom tag associated with it we saw
this when we built the image with one
tag and then tagged them with new tags
to push them to those to Registries in
the container registry module that's it
for the sub commands of Docker images
however there's one more command that's
associated with images that's not a sub
command and that's Docker scan
so I can do Docker scan let's just scan
the Ubuntu image for fun
2.04
and that will use a tool called Snick to
go off query of vulnerabilities database
and assess whether there's any known
vulnerabilities within that image
it then outputs a report of all the
different vulnerabilities that we've
found
things like system D openssl these are
at the medium severity level
we've got one here at the high severity
level it also tells you when in the
Upstream project that vulnerability was
fixed so then we can decide do we want
to use this base image or do we want to
pick a different one that potentially
has this mitigated already
that covers most of the things that
you'll be doing when interacting with
images let's look at the options for the
docker container command
[Applause]
now as you can see there are many more
sub commands for Docker containers than
there were for images I'm just going to
highlight a few that I think are useful
to know the attach command if you have a
running container already and you want
to attach your local shell to the
input output and error streams of a
container you can do that with attach a
similar one to that is the exact command
where rather than attaching to an
existing
stream you're going to run a new command
within the container
just like with images we can run the
inspect which will dump a Big Blob of
Json metadata that can have useful
information the Stop and kill commands
are how we can either gracefully or
non-gracefully stop a container so if
you have a container that you've tried
to stop but it won't die you can always
use kill and they'll generally do the
trick you would want to issue that with
either the name of the container or the
ID of the container
so if we do docker
run
Ubuntu
sleep 999
now that's going to sleep for a thousand
seconds and even if I do Ctrl C it
nothing's going to happen
so if I want to get out of that I can do
Dr PS we see that container here is
running
and then I would just generally do
Docker kill paste that in and now
our containers exited and we've got our
shell back
if you want to view the logs of a
container you would do Docker container
logs and then either the ID or the name
of the container if you want to Trail
the logs
so if you want to have a live feed of
them you can add the dash F command this
container here that you you've seen pop
up when I do Docker PS it's a system
container that you'll likely see on on
your host but let's just check the logs
of it since we're here we do Docker logs
of that container we also can do Docker
container logs those are the same
command
and then finally if we wanted to tail
those logs we can add the dash F and now
any additional logs would be printed to
the console automatically the ls command
lists all running containers
and I believe is pretty much identical
to Docker PS
if we add a dash a flag it will show
stopped containers as well
so without the dash a it's only running
containers with Dash a it shows stopped
as well if we wanted to clean up all
those stop containers we can issue the
prune command or if we wanted to remove
a single container we can use the RM
command
the Run command is one we've seen over
and over where we're creating a
container from a container image top can
also be a useful one if we want to see
what's running inside the container so
let's do a Docker run Dash D Ubuntu
sleep 99
and now we have this container ID
docker
Docker top Docker retainer top then ID
and you can see the processes running
inside of that container
and then finally the weight option would
could be useful if you're writing a
script where you needed the one
container to finish before you
progressed you could issue a Docker
container weight command which would
stop your script until that container
exited then print out the exit code and
you can proceed on with your script from
there the volumes options are much
simpler
we only have these five options we've
seen the create option where you just
passed it a name
Docker volume create my volume
we can use the inspect volume to look at
that
we can see where it's mounted within
that virtual machine file system the
name the driver
Etc
the ls command will list all available
volumes marker volume LS
we see a few named volumes here at the
bottom
but we also see a bunch of anonymous
volumes above it that are created and
managed by Docker if you have data that
you want to persist it's much easier to
manage if you go with a name volume
create that volume and then mount it
into your container at runtime
just like with images and containers we
can use the prune command to remove all
of our unused volumes or the RM command
to remove one or more volumes
now finally let's look at the options
for networks they'll look very familiar
given that they're almost identical to
the volume options
Docker Network just like with volume so
we can create inspect list prune and
remove the two new ones here are connect
and disconnect
and so if we had previously created a
container but we forgot to connect it to
the network that we wanted with the dash
dash Network flag
we could then run a Docker Network
connect
with the ID of the container to tie it
into that Network
so we can do Docker Network LS let's say
for example we wanted to do Docker run
Ubuntu
sleep 99
I'll run that in the background
but we didn't want it to be on the
bridge default Network
instead we wanted to connect it to my
network so that it'll be able to talk to
other services that were spawning there
we can do Docker Network connect
my network
pass it the ID
and now if we inspect my network
we can see the listing of containers
that are active there and we have this
one named awesome Brown just confirm
Austin Brown is the automatically
generated name for that sleep container
that I created
if I wanted to remove the container from
that Network for whatever reason I could
use the docker Network disconnect
command generally with these networks
because I'm bringing containers up and
down so frequently rather than starting
a container and then attaching it I
would just want to add that to my Docker
post config or as of option in my Docker
run command so that it would be
connected to the proper Network at
runtime now that we're fully versed in
the docker CLI how we can make the
developer experience working with
containers extremely nice one of the
main considerations that we should think
about
in terms of the developer experience
when building out applications like this
how do we go from this confused
frustrated developer at the top this
excited pair of programmers here at the
bottom we want an easy and simple setup
we want to be able to iterate without
needing to rebuild the container image
so far even if we made the tiniest
change to our code we would need to
rebuild the container image and then
rerun the container to have that
reflected and that's just a terrible
experience that being said we can use
the bind mounts that we learned about to
mount our source code from our host
system into the Container at runtime and
then we can use hot reloading utilities
like nodemon or there's one for golang
called air such that with each change of
our source
our applications will get automatically
rebuilt and restarted and those changes
will be reflected immediately we need to
be able to debug our code as if it was
running locally
and for that we can add debugging
utilities into our development image and
set up a special Docker compose file to
use those utilities
we also want to be able to execute our
tests within the container
again I can make a custom Docker compose
file that we'll use to do that
in most scenarios the only containers
that you'll be building on your local
system are the ones you're currently
developing on for production images
you'll want those built within a
continuous integration Pipeline and
finally it can be super powerful to be
able to spin up an ephemeral environment
with each pull request that you make
that will have all of your modifications
built into it automatically that you can
share with the team member to get
feedback and iterate on things more
quickly
when we get to that that's where our
sponsor of today's video shipyard.build
comes into play they make it very easy
to take your Docker compose setup and
get a fresh ephemeral environment built
and deployed automatically with a simple
GitHub event like a pull request so
let's jump over to the code editor and
take our initial Docker compose file
that we built a few modules ago and
modify it to improve the developer
experience in these ways so we first
built out our Docker compose file in
module 8. so I'm going to copy that into
module 11.
let's just make sure it still runs
I already have a make Target set up that
we'll call compose up
and I'm going to name this
Docker compose
Dev
make compose up build which will
look at that Dev
compose file
build my images and then run them
it looks like line 9 here where I'm
using my present work directory it's no
longer a valid reference to that Veep
config file instead I'm going to have to
set the relative path to that like so
okay so things appear to be working as
expected just had to make that one tweak
to the volume Mount I would say if we're
if we're thinking of that wish list that
I just had up easy and simple setup is a
check we're able to get up and running
with just that single command
now we want to improve upon iteration
without having to rebuild the container
also while this volume Mount syntax
works I slightly prefer the more verbose
version
that we can specify here with a type A
source and a Target so this should do
exactly the same thing
and now in addition to bind mounting in
that configuration let's also bind Mount
the entire source code directory
so that's going to be in this module 5
client react
and so this will bind Mount the client
react directory into our container at
user Source app one additional point
though is that
within client react we have things like
the node modules directory and the
distribution directory which we don't
want to get bind mounted in and so the
way that we can overcome that is to
specify
another volume mount
that has no source and only a Target
and so by doing this
it will effectively overwrite this bind
mount for this particular path and avoid
bringing those node modules from my host
system into the container
and just to remind myself what the
command is for Docker file 3 let's go
look at that one
client react Docker file three
this is running npm run Dev which in
turn calls Veet so we should have hot
reloading built in
and so now with these bind mounts in
place
let me start up my application again
now if I navigate into my source code
and make a change let's see what happens
client react source app.jsx
save it because we're bind mounting that
Source in we automatically reload our
application with Veet and that gets
built in and we see it immediately on
the front end
now let's take the same technique and
apply it to our two API servers
here we're going to use the same bind
Mount approach for the node API
including the empty volume Mount over
node modules to avoid bringing those
into the container
and I'll put it right after in it true
instead of client react we want API node
and let's just remind ourselves what
this Docker file 8 is doing
okay so we're going to want to make a
few tweaks here this Docker file is
optimized for our production deployment
but in this case we want to have a
separate build stage that we can Target
for this development environment I'll
start by naming my first stage as base
and then
where we diverge from our production
versus development is going to be at
this step where for production we only
want to install the production
dependencies so I'm going to say from
base
here
and then I'm also going to have a as
production
and then I'll do
from base as Dev
and so now within this stage we can have
our development commands so development
commands are going to look similar
but instead of npmci only production
we'll do npm install and that will
install both Dev and production
dependencies
let's also move this environment
variable down
such that we set that only in the
production image
after we've installed our dependencies
we want to copy all of our source code
in
and then
for the development stage we want our
Command to be npm run Dev
and I'm actually going to call this
Docker file number nine
just so we can keep them keep track of
them
so we have our
Dev stage where we're installing
development and production dependencies
we're copying our source we're running
npm run Dev and then we have our
production stage where we are doing what
we were doing before with the non-root
user installing only production
dependencies
Etc
now in our Docker compose Dev let's use
that new
Docker file 9.
and see
if we succeeded
oh one thing I forgot to do is in
addition to a context and a Docker file
you can pass a Target and that allows
you to specify which of your stages in
your multi-stage build you want to
Target so in this case it would have
defaulted to production as the final
stage I want it to Target that Dev stage
because that's going to be where we're
running nodemon for the auto restart
so now let's make a change to our node
API source
here Source index
in our response
let's just add
tada
so we save it now refresh and we see our
node resterver was detected nodemont saw
the change restarted and now when we hit
that API from our front end we get the
updated version back
and so we've got hot reloading working
for our front end in Veet as well as our
node-based API let's do the same for go
Lang
our bind Mount setup should be quite
similar
a volume
going to API golang
we don't need the node modules Mount
depending how you have your go path set
up that will determine where you're
going to install your dependencies on
your host system in this case it's
outside of my project directory so I
don't have to worry about shadowing that
with an empty volume
however my target inside the container
instead of user Source app if we think
about the work directory that I used in
the docker file it's just slash app
and now I need to do something similar
to my production Docker file add some
development stages so that I can have
both my production ready and my
development images
make a new one called Docker file
number
eight
make sure we're using the new one
and we're going to add a target of Dev
and we will get around to adding that
here
so my first stage already has a name but
now because I'm going to have I'm going
to split this into two build stages so
I'll have build base
as this
it should be the same up until here
where we download our dependencies
however this is where we want to split
and so I'll do
from build
base as
build Dev
and so for our Dev build in addition to
building in addition to pulling in our
dependencies that we've specified
there's two more dependencies that I
want to add from a development
perspective and that is a package called
air which enables hot reloading so it'll
detect a change like node mon rebuild
that application and then restart it
as well as a package called delve which
allows for remote debugging that will
set up so we can do
set breakpoints and connect to our
container remotely to investigate the
state of all of our variables and that
sort of thing
and so the command to install those two
dependencies
is go install
pass it the name of the package and go
install passes the name of the package
we still need to copy in our source code
and then we'll set a command using that
air package
so we'll call Air Dash C and pass it
this default air.tomel which I created
ahead of time
and it just tells it
sort of thing things like where the main
file is what command it should run when
it needs to rebuild where to look for
changes Etc
and so that can be our build Dev stage
that will be actually I'll just call it
our Dev stage
like we did in the docker file
and then for the remainder we build our
production images and then copy them
into that final scratch image so I'll do
from
uh build base
as build production
then down here when we copy from build
instead we're actually copying from
build production
we'll add this non-root user within the
build production stage
and so that should be good
we're now targeting our Dev stage we're
bind mounting in our source code we're
using that air package to do automatic
reloading let's try it out
okay it looks like our app has started
up so let's
load here
we can see it's running let's make a
change to our golang API
just to see that rebuild happening
if we go up to module five main.go
and add something here
we see a detected main.go is changing it
just rebuilt and so if I reload we go
language awesome
I'll save it again
you can see it's detected it it builds
it my refresh that update is reflected
so now we've got hot reloading within
our containers by bind mounting our
source code in and then using utilities
like nodemon Veet or air to
automatically detect file system changes
and update our application in real time
now the next item on our wish list is
remote debugging so we want to be able
to run a debugger within our containers
and then connect to it from our
development environment
as much as we love doing printf
debugging where we put in a bunch of
print statements sometimes you really
need to use a debugger and investigate a
little more thoroughly so let's get that
set up now
what I'm going to do is create a new
Docker compose file that I'll call
Docker compose
debug
and one interesting feature of Docker
compose is that you can take two files
and pass them both into the docker
compose up command
and it will take the first file and then
take the second file and overlay it you
only have to define the fields that have
changed between the two you can have
your base configuration and then slot in
slight differences and so in this case
we're going to be able to leverage that
Docker compose Dev file almost entirely
but we'll add a few new Fields mostly
adding additional ports to publish
because we're going to have to connect
on New Ports that the debugger is
listening on
and modifying the command that's
executed when the container started
we'll start with our version
of 3.9
services
the services that we're modifying here
are the API layer so we'll have API
node
and API golang
we want to override the command field
so we'll have a command here
and so instead of npm run Dev like we
were running before we actually want
npm
run
debug
Docker and I added that as a new npm
script so we can go take a look at what
that is npm debug Docker runs node mod
so we still get that hot reloading but
the dash dash inspect command tells node
to run its debugger here we're listening
on all hosts on Port 9229 so this will
enable us to connect from our Local Host
system on Port 9229 as long as we open
as long as we publish 9229 in our
compose file and then we're passing it
that index.js file as the entry point
for the program
so here we'll do ports and I'm going to
have both my normal 3000 port
that I had before
as well as my new debug port
and so when I run this command if I do a
Docker compose debug build I do Docker
compose and then I first pass it my
development compose file so that's my
Docker compose Dev and then I pass it my
debug compose file Docker compose debug
and Docker compose takes those two and
interleaves them together
such that these will be the new values
but we can still take advantage of all
this additional config here
our golang API will be
somewhat similar
the debugger that we're running for
golang runs on Port 4000 it's a tool
called delve which was that other Dev
dependency that I installed
and our Command
I'll just copy and paste it here because
it's a little bit long
uses that delve utility in debug mode we
pass it the main.go file that should run
we tell it which Port we want to listen
on as well as some additional
configuration options and so that should
be enough to run our application in
debug mode so I can do make
compose up debug
build as I showed it passes the dev file
first then the debug compose file and so
while that's building and setting up I
can show you the launch.json
configuration that I use and that is the
way that vs code sets up its debugging
utilities
so under the configurations block I have
two of them I have one set up for node
with Port 229 one set up for go Lang on
that port 4000. uh the key
things to call out here that I'm using
the request attach mode because my
container will already have that
debugger running inside I don't need to
spawn a new one I just want to attach to
it
and then this local root command tells
vs code where the root of this project
is within my workspace and that's so
that when I create a breakpoint it's
able to map that to a path within the
container which I'm passing here of user
Source app
oh I see I hit an error here it's
because I forgot to change this port for
the goaling API to
8080 so
let's try that again
similarly for golang we're using
a particular
adapter that is associated with that
delve
again we're using the attach requests
option
specifying the port giving it a remote
path
and then this one's this one was a
little more tricky to get set up again
we need to figure out we need to be able
to map from our host system
into the container
such that it's able to know when we set
a breakpoint
what that corresponds to
and properly apply it inside the
container
and so the substitute path command
takes the path on the local system and
modifies it such that it gets fed in
properly inside the container
my app is now running in debug mode I
don't have any breakpoint set or
anything so it just loads as normal
however I can go into the run and debug
portion of my code editor and pick one
of these so let's pick attach to node
click the play button
aha
it was not connecting because it was
forwarding my debug requests to
Port 3000 where the app is listening
and so instead I should be forwarding to
the port
but the debugger's listening
now that the apis have started up I'll
click play
and now it did successfully attach
we have our break point in our
source code
just before it sends that response back
if I reload here
we see it caught at that break point and
we can see all of the local variables
including the response itself
Wednesday February 23rd
API node 12507 so if I then click
skip over the break point or play it
will resume and allow that to be
returned from the API so let's click
play and we see we got back that
response
I'll click disconnect here
and let's try the same thing with golang
click the play button
looks like we were able to attach
let's load our golang API
and set a break point somewhere within
our golang code under main.go let's do
right before we send back our data
breakpoint
we can see it being injected here in the
logs
and now if we load the page once again
we successfully caught at the breakpoint
and we can see the locals here we have
our time data as well as our gin context
and now we have debugging working for
both the golang and the node-based API
I also added a
react query debugging tools as a as a
Dev dependency to get built in here
allows us to get all sorts of
information about the queries that react
query is making to the back end so for
example
if we load here we can look at this
query when it was last updated
uh the data that we got back we can tell
it to refresh refresh the data and so
without having to reload the whole page
we can interact with the react query
specific components directly
that gives us debug capabilities for
all of the services that we're building
so that's awesome and now the next thing
on our wish list was to be able to
execute tests with inside the
containerized environment
similar to how we had a overlay compose
file for
debugging I'm going to do I'm going to
make us another one called Docker
compose test
we don't need the port access
we will be overriding the command
we'll just execute our npm run test
script
which will execute jest which in turn
looks for our test so I can just show
you the test Suite that I have set up
it's it's quite minimal
so API node test we have one example
test that expects true to be true so
that's always going to pass and the
package.json specifies
uh Tess just calls Jess which will
discover the test and execute it and
then for golang
similarly minimal
uh I have
a test module with exampletest.go it
tests that one equals one which indeed
it does
and my command that I'm going to use
there
is go test so here
instead of using delve I'm going to run
go test and then I'll pass it this Dash
V option
which will enable it to properly
discover those tests
so now in order to run this I have two
make targets set up
or I have Docker compose calls for
golang and node separately so again I'm
going to use the dev compose file first
overlay that test compose file onto it
and then I can specify run build and a
specific service within that compose
file and so this one should execute the
go link tests and this one should
execute the node tests
so if I do make run tests
it's going to build those images and
execute those tests
so we see the just test passed
and let's see let's go find the yeah
here's the go Lang test here so the
golang test passed the just test passed
and we were able to execute those tests
within the containerized environment
the next item on our wish list was
continuous integration and so that
essentially refers to this idea you
whenever you're pushing code to your
virgin control system you should be
running pipelines to do things like
execute your test Suite build and push
your images
Etc GitHub actions is a continuous
integration system that's built into
GitHub and you can just add a couple of
files to your repo and it makes it very
easy to set up this type of thing I've
added a workflow to the repo that I can
show here
that is going to do a few things it's
going to build our image it's going to
scan it tag it and push it to Docker Hub
I'm only doing this for one of the
services just as an example but you can
use the same Concepts to add it to as
many services as you want
within the repo you place GitHub action
files at the dot GitHub workflows
directory and then any yaml file in here
will be interpreted as a workflow
with about 50 lines of code here we're
able to configure a GitHub action that
will
build our images scan them test them Etc
So within this file we have a number of
different sections I'll just walk
through them now this first section
starting with on tells GitHub when it
should run this workflow in this case
I've specified you want to run it on
push events to specific branches and
tags so if I push to the GitHub action
branch which I'm on now it will trigger
this workflow or if I push a git tag
with starting with the letter V so maybe
it's v x dot y dot Z so some sember
version when I do a release you can also
do other types of events like a cron
string so you would run it periodically
based on a schedule or upon creation of
pull requests below this you define your
job section where you have the different
jobs that you're going to run and then
within each job you can have a number of
steps and so I've only defined a single
job I'm just going to build tag and push
my image you specify which Runner you
want to run on I'm running on Ubuntu
latest and then the steps that I'm going
to run are executing first checkout
which is a public action provided by
GitHub which checks out the code I then
am using a public action from Docker to
generate a bunch of tags that I want to
use for my image using information such
as the name of the branch the name of
the pr the version if I'm pushing a tag
I can use that to generate a Docker
image tag and then finally I'm using the
date and the commit hash as another
example of a potential tag that I might
want to use like I talked about when we
were looking at container Registries
here I'm giving it the name of the repo
that I'm going to push to and these
actions these public actions that I'm
referring to are available in the GitHub
action Marketplace
and so this was an action that was
produced by Docker you can see the
source code here for it but if we go to
the action Marketplace
we can see here it is it tells us all
the different ways we can use it the
types of inputs the types of outputs Etc
so I'm able to
specify that this step should use that
action give it these types of tags and
will automatically generate those for me
next again I'm going to use a public
action from Docker to log into Docker
Hub and within my repo I can specify my
username and my
access token such to the table to do
that
So within the repo
within the repo under settings
under secrets and variables actions you
can specify
environment Secrets or repository
secrets and so here I specified my
Docker Hub username and a access token
such that that action is able to log in
next up again another public action from
Docker so really I'm leveraging their
work to make my life super easy this one
is going to point to the file that I
want to build as well as the context
with which I want to build it
I'm saying I do want to push it to
Docker Hub and then I'm using the output
of my metadata step here
and applying those as tags so this is
going to be a listing of all those tags
that are generated this will apply them
all and push them all
and then finally I'm leveraging a tool
from Aqua security using their
vulnerability scanner to look in the
image for any critical vulnerabilities
you can specify what level you want to
block on here and so I'm saying if
there's any critical vulnerabilities in
the image fail to run
and that way I can go investigate if
there are no critical vulnerabilities it
will pass the Run
so I haven't made any changes on this
Branch but I do want to trigger a run so
I'm going to do an empty commit to do
get commit
M empty
allow
empty get push
and now if I go to my repo under actions
we can see that empty commit just
triggered a build
here's my job
if I click into it
I see it starting up that Runner
and then each of my steps we can see
it's checked out my code it's generated
the tags so let's look at the tags that
are generated we've got GitHub action is
the branch I'm on latest is just the
default and then
this is the this is today's date as well
as the short hash from the commit
we successfully logged into Docker hub
we then successfully built and pushed
our image we ran the scanner
and found no critical vulnerabilities
and then there's just some cleanup at
the end so now let me go to Docker hub
we should be able to see for our API
node
repo
this version was just posted a few
seconds ago and so that kind of
highlights The Continuous integration
workflow that you would want to set up
for your container images
that's just a taste of what you can do
with GitHub actions and with continuous
integration pipelines Brett Fisher has a
repo called Docker CI CD automation that
has a whole bunch of really cool
examples around doing things not only
building and testing and pushing your
images but actually interacting with PRS
adding comments to those PRS with the
results of the tests and that sort of
thing you can see his talk that he gave
on this on YouTube I would definitely
suggest checking that out now the final
topic that I want to cover here in the
developer experience section of the
course is ephemeral environments
ephemeral environments are this idea of
building and deploying short-lived
isolated environments that we can use
for any sort of purpose including
testing validation QA Etc and in
particular I'm going to use this
platform from Shipyard to very easily
set up this for our sample application
I'll start by just walking through their
onboarding process and I'll show you
with just a few lines of configuration
to our Docker compose file we can have
ephemeral environment set up with every
new PR that repo I'm here on the
shipyard.build website I click login
It'll ask me to log in with my GitHub
I'll do that
you'll authorize Shipyard to access your
account
this now redirects me back to the
shipyard site
where I will connect my GitHub
organization so that initial connection
just gave them access to my user
information now this is the
authorization to actually access my
repos you can choose either all repos or
only select repos so here I'm going to
pick the specific repo that we care
about which is the docker course repo
this will grant them the necessary
permissions to read the contents the
repo they also have features where they
can provide information back on the
GitHub interface that's why it has read
and write access to checks commit
statuses and pull requests
at this point I'll just click install
now as we can see we're on the free
trial period as I mentioned during the
introduction students of this course
have a exclusive promotion code where
the first 300 people to sign up can get
an extended trial period so go check out
the description for more information on
that
and then at this point we can click the
we can click this green button to add
our first application
we'll select the repository that we care
about it's our Docker course repo and
for our base environment I'm going to
use the main branch
we can use the default name for our
application and now if we click the
select Services button it's going to
scan the repo for a Docker compose file
in this case because of the structure of
the repo based on the course it wasn't
able to find specifically which one we
want I'm going to choose the one that we
set up initially in module 8 because
that's the simplest Docker compose file
that contains all the services we care
about I'll just click select
and now we need to pick which of the
services in that Docker compose file we
want to include here I'm not going to
include our Veep based deployment
instead I'm only going to have the nginx
based front end we'll leave on our two
apis in the database here
and then we can see that it
automatically detected our named volumes
and an interesting feature here is that
because we have that named volume
whatever stored in that volume on our
main environment will get snapshotted
and copied over to additional
environments as we make PRS against that
at the top here it's saying please
include at least one service with a
route and so we need to provide Shipyard
a bit more context and configuration so
that it knows how to route traffic to
our various services and the way that we
do that is by adding labels to our
Docker compose file so let me jump over
to the code editor and add in just a few
lines to our Docker compose file so that
Shipyard will be able to properly detect
and utilize those routes
and so each of our services we can add a
labels field and so here under the nginx
client react nginx field I'll add a
labels Target and add these two labels
the first one is specifying that this is
the primary route this is the route that
we want traffic on the root path to come
into and then we're specifying the route
as just the forward slash so this is
saying this is going to be the default
service that we want you to Route
traffic to and so with those two things
that's good we'll adapt for our
API node service We'll add this this is
not the primary route so we'll get rid
of that and we will add this going to
slash API slash
node just like we had before and then
similarly for our API golang
we'll go here
and just replace node with golang
and so with just those I think it was
additional seven or eight lines of code
into our Docker compose file we can now
commit that to the main branch
push it
now if we go back to Shipyard and reload
our latest commit
now we can see that it automatically
picked up those labels and is including
those in the information about our
configuration here
with that I'll add environment variables
all the default values here should be
fine we don't need any additional
environment variables and click create
application
this is now automatically going off and
building all the containers based on the
latest commit to that main branch it
will then bundle them up and deploy them
now you'll notice that the first time
you log into Shipyard you'll get this
message at the top it's because it's
provisioning a standalone kubernetes
environment for each customer and that
allows for isolation between customer
data however it does take a few minutes
to set up and so the very first time
that you you're here you'll have to wait
about 10 minutes after that
the build and deploy should be much
quicker
and while we were waiting I realized
that I should have added one additional
configuration here for our
API layer and so that is
that is the shipyard route rewrite label
and this is saying if we hit the URL
slash API node our node service is
expecting that to come in at the root
path and so by adding this label it will
strip out that prefix and we'll do the
same thing for golang
because the routes that I've defined
inside of my services are not expecting
that prefix
so add those and push them
now another neat feature that we can
turn on is if we go here to this three
dot menu and click under configure
under notifications and general settings
we can add GitHub commit checks
and GitHub PR comments so that when
Shipyard has information for us it will
populate that back into GitHub so that
we can see it from there we also can
tell which pull request we want to
deploy on so we could have specific
labels let's say we only want to deploy
on bugs or we only want to deploy on
enhancements or we can specify a red a
regular expression to decide which
branch names we want to deploy with in
this case I'm going to leave these as
the default so it should deploy any PR
back to the main branch
I'll click save
there's also a slack integration you can
use to get updates and notifications
from Shipyard I'm not going to go into
that now but I just wanted to call it
out as an option a few minutes later
back on our home application page we can
see that our base environment has built
and is ready to be visited now you'll
also see this little timer here that
says stopping in 2 hours and 49 minutes
so that's a feature that is called SLV
or since last visit and you can
configure that within your organization
to tell Shipyard how long an ephemeral
environment should live and by putting
environments to sleep if they're not
being used allows you to have more
ephemeral environments on a given tier
within their platform if I click the
visit button it's going to take us to
this page where we get a login prompt so
we can log in either using GitHub or
Google for oauth and this allows you to
have these ephemeral environments not
public on the internet but actually
protected behind this login layer where
you can very finely control who has
access to it
so I'll click to log in with GitHub
and we can see we've got our application
running within their environment and if
you look up here the URL we see our
custom URL that's associated with this
particular ephemeral environment now if
we wanted to if we wanted to Grant
access to this we could go to the
visitors tab
and under here I can add GitHub
usernames or Google usernames and that
way you can control who has access via
single sign-on so that's our base
environment now let's make a slight
change to our application and then
redeploy based on a pull request event
I'll go back to my code editor and let's
have it deploy with a different message
on that home screen so I'll go into my
example web application here on the
front end in my app.jsx file I'll scroll
down
instead of hey team we'll say hey team
from
Shipyard
and we'll change the wave
into a ship
awesome now I'll do git checkout
Dash B
ha Shipyard demo
and I'll commit to this new Shipyard
demo branch
change message
now I'll push that
now if I go over to GitHub I can see
that recent Branch had a push I'm going
to create a pull request from that
Branch back to the main branch
if I click create pull request
and now jump back over to Shipyard we
can see it immediately detected that
pull request and is now building
a new ephemeral environment specifically
for that new Shipyard demo Branch once
it finishes building we'll be able to
see that it's different than the
original ephemeral environment with that
updated message clearly a change that
small is quite trivial but it could
represent any number of complex changes
to our different Services we could be
changing the API layer we could be
changing our things like our database
schema let me go here to the build
details dashboard and show you how
that's progressing
it shows us the various services that we
have within our application that we
selected initially we can see the build
logs as it ran our Docker build commands
and looked within the docker compose
file found the corresponding Docker
files and built those out we can see all
the logs here
across our different services
now under the deploy tab we can see the
pods as they come up
and then under the Run tab we can see
the logs coming out of the containers
themselves
it's now handling that final DNS setup
so that we'll be able to access the
environment
and now we have our second ephemeral
environment live let me visit that one
as well
as we can see it's taken that change
that we made in that PR and deployed it
in a separate environment from our base
environment
there's an additional interface here if
we click terminal it'll pull up a way
for us to get additional information
about all of our environments so we've
got our main environment we've got our
Shipyard demo environment let me just
click into the main one we can see the
pods running here
within that environment I can choose one
of them if I select it we'll get the
logs here at the bottom
we can also hit the r key if we wanted
to exec in and do some debugging that
way
and so now this is a shell running
inside that pod within the environment
I'll exit out there's also a CLI that I
can run locally to get a lot of this
functionality on my host system directly
from my laptop let me jump over and show
you that CLI real quick to install the
CLI they provide either a bash script
that you can use or you can use
something like Homebrew to install it
I've already got it installed and then
the next piece is to get your Shipyard
API token and so in order to turn on the
CLI for your account you'll need to ask
the team at Shipyard to do so but once
you do you can go up here to the user
and then click profile and it will show
up on that page and you can grab that
API key to use with the CLI we can see
here all the different functionality
that we have
so I can do something like Shipyard get
environments
that's going to list out all the
environments that I have and let's say I
want to get the logs from one of my pods
like I could see from the web interface
I can do Shipyard
uh
logs
with the end flag I can pass the uuid of
that environment and then with the
service flag I can tell it which service
I want so let's do API node
and we can see the logs coming out of my
node-based API application similarly
we could port forward directly to one of
those applications so let me just port
forward to that one
so instead of logs
I'll do port forward and then my node
applications listing on Port 3000 so
I'll do three thousand
it wants the port flag
and now my localhost 3000 should be
forwarded to that node-based API
and I can go here
and I'm connected directly to it this
would be super useful if I wanted to do
something like maybe connect to my
postgres database directly with PG admin
or otherwise I could port forward to
that environment make whatever changes I
needed to let's say I was building out
my base environment and I needed
particular seed data and I wanted to run
my migrations I could do that manually
once on my base environment and then
those changes would get snapshotted
because they're in a named volume
and built into my additional
environments moving forward
so hopefully this gives you an idea of
the power of ephemeral environments and
the ease with which we were able to use
the shipyard platform to generate them I
created That Base environment from my
main branch and now every PR that I
create moving forward will get an
ephemeral environment to validate before
we deploy to staging or production if
you recall we turned on the ability for
Shipyard to populate information back on
GitHub so let's go see what it did on
that PR
if I go under pull requests demo
Shipyard
we can see that the shipyard app created
this comment and tells us the
environment was successfully built and
running we can access it at this link or
see the build details at that link and
so this just makes it very easy for
someone reviewing this pull request to
now go check out what exactly these
changes are and how they impacted the
application
hopefully that demo kind of gave you an
idea of the power of ephemeral
environments and why we would want to
use them within our software lifecycle
and showcase the ease with which we were
able to use the shipyard platform to
build those out for our project at this
point we've got all the tools within our
system to have a really nice developer
experience with containers and now let's
shift gears and actually learn how to
deploy them into the cloud
all right congratulations we've made it
to the final module of the course and
that will be focused on deploying
containers so we now know how to build
container images run containers from
those images we've learned about how to
do development with them and now we need
to build on those skills and learn how
to deploy our containers to production
now one of the main benefits of
containers is that they provide the
standard interface upon which to run as
long as you can provide a container
image that meets that open container
spec there are many cloud service
providers that will happily take that
container image and run it for you I saw
this article back in 2021 from Corey
Quinn who runs the last week in AWS
newsletter talking about the 17
different ways to run containers on AWS
now obviously AWS is kind of the
sprawling massive cloud provider but
even still to have 17 different ways to
run containers ranging from container
based serverless options like Lambda to
elastic container service to running
kubernetes with elastic kubernetes
engine there's just so many different
ways to run containers and this is just
within one cloud provider and so that
portability is both a blessing and a
curse meaning that it provides us this
flexibility but also it can be a bit
overwhelming in terms of deciding which
of these methods to use
and now what do we actually care about
when it comes to choosing a method to
deploy our container-based workloads I'd
say the first item that's top of mind
for me is security and whether either
the cloud provider is handling security
out of the box and setting all those
container runtime options such that it
meets the threshold we need or they give
access to those knobs and dials that we
can set them ourselves
the next one is the ergonomics or the
developer experience so how easy is it
to go from having a set of container
images and running those and getting
traffic from the internet to them also
how easy is it to deploy new versions so
if I make a change to my code how does
that code make its way into production
and then the third one in terms of
ergonomics is how do I work with the
running containers how do I check the
logs can I monitor them can I collect
traces easily combining those three
elements make for either a good or bad
developer experience when when working
with any of these platforms
the next one is scalability so does the
platform meet my needs in terms of the
scale of any individual container or the
number of total containers required for
example can I access particular types of
gpus what if I need to scale beyond the
capability of a single host can I launch
containers across multiple hosts and how
do those Services then communicate with
one another
another key consideration is persistent
storage so we've talked about volumes
within Docker we've mostly focused from
a developer perspective
with Docker desktop and seeing how those
volumes get stored on your laptop or
desktop however if we're now running
containers across multiple hosts and
they're getting scheduled
and they could be scheduled on one
versus the other we need to think about
how storage works and if it's possible
for those storage to be accessed from
different virtual machines or different
physical machines and the last one that
I have here is cost how affordable is it
to run your containers in this
particular environment these range from
sort of bare metal where you're paying
just for the compute but handling all
the operations yourself all the way up
to maybe a fully managed platform as a
service offering where they're charging
you a premium for some of those improved
ergonomics or developer experience
features so thinking about how much it's
going to cost you understanding the
financial impact of your platform will
be important if you're running a
business based on these containerized
workloads
now when I was planning out the course
uh I actually built out three different
deployment targets so one using
railway.app one using Docker swarm and
one using kubernetes since we're already
at about four hours into the course I've
decided to shift that slightly uh within
this video I'm going to demonstrate the
docker swarm deployment and then I'm
going to create separate bonus videos
showcasing how to deploy onto Railway
and how to deploy onto kubernetes for
the the sample application that we've
been working with and once those bonus
videos are released I'll have
information in the description about how
to access them
now at this point you might be asking
why can't we just take the docker
compose file that we created in module 8
create a virtual machine and run that
directly now while that would work and
you would have your containers running
on that host and you could set up the
firewall to access them it's not ideal
there's some major limitations with
Docker compose that prevent us from
wanting to use that for production
workload first there's no way to deploy
a new version of our containers without
having to stop and then restart the
container and so by definition you're
going to have some down time there it
might be very quick on the order of a
second or two but nonetheless you
generally want to avoid downtime if you
can and then also there's no utilities
for easily rolling back a version with
Docker compose directly also Docker
compose doesn't have a
native way to handle credentials
properly we've been passing in the that
database URL or the postgres password as
an environment variable there's no
there's no mechanism in Docker compose
to handle encrypted secrets and so
that's a major limitation there
also you can only run Docker compose on
a single host so that hasn't been an
issue as we've been developing on our
development machines however we would
like the ability to expand Beyond a
single host and add things like high
availability in the future and so Docker
compose is limited in that way
there's two other reasons you might have
historically heard cited for not using
Docker compose in production uh the
first is that it used to not support
health checks and so we'll talk about
what health checks are and add some in
that is no longer true they've added
health checks to Docker compose
relatively recently and then the other
one has also been mitigated is that
Docker compose used to live as a
separate binary when you would run it
and so it was just harder to install and
config now that Docker space compose
rather Docker Dash compose is built into
the docker binary itself that's no
longer an issue either you may hear
people reference these as potential
reasons just know that historically they
were reasons not to use Docker compose
and production now I've phrased these as
things that Docker compose doesn't have
however as we'll see these are features
that Docker swarm does have built in we
can configure a deployment strategy to
have zero downtime deployments we can
roll back changes if we want to we can
handle credentials via a feature called
secrets and we can scale a Docker store
cluster across many hosts to keep things
simple I'm going to deploy a swarm
cluster on a single host so it's going
to be quite similar to the conceptually
to using Docker compose up we're going
to create a swarm cluster consisting of
a single virtual machine and then we're
going to modify our Docker compose file
and you'll see that the actual changes
in the configuration are quite minimal
there's only a few things that we need
to tweak to make our compose file
compatible with swarm we're going to
deploy that and then we'll set up DNS so
that we can access it via the Internet
what's the process going to look like
I'm going to create a virtual machine
I'm going to make sure that the firewall
setup for that virtual machine allows
inbound traffic on the necessary ports
we'll install Docker engine and so I'll
use the script located at get.docker.com
I'm going to continue to use the docker
client running on my laptop but connect
to Docker engine running on the virtual
machine using this Docker host
environment variable so we'll connect
over SSH and have the client running
locally but Docker engine running
remotely we'll initialize the Swarm
we'll modify our Docker compose file to
add health checks this allows swarm to
periodically ping our service and make
sure it is healthy and if not replace it
or restart it
we're going to add a deployment strategy
which allows us to deploy with zero
downtime and then we're going to add
support for secrets so that we can
handle the credentials for that database
properly
finally we're going to build and push
our container images to Docker Hub
previously we were using Docker compose
to also build our images for a
production based setup we want to have a
specific image tag that we're running
and so I'll build and push those and
then finally we'll deploy that stack
onto the virtual machine and see it
running
now at this point I also want to issue a
slight disclaimer about the way we've
configured the database here we're going
to be deploying our database alongside
the applications into our Docker swarm
cluster now that's perfectly fine to do
and we do have a Docker volume to
persist the data such that it will exist
Beyond container restarts however we're
not implementing backups or anything
like that and so if you have an
application where your user data is very
important you'll want to either
Implement a more robust setup that
includes periodic backups and the
ability to restore from those
or move the database to something like a
database as a service
from one of the cloud providers Amazon
has their RDS service Google has Cloud
SQL Etc okay so I'm just going to create
a virtual machine here on sivo you can
use whatever cloud provider you prefer
I'll call it docker of course
swarm we want one instance I'm going to
choose the small machine type I'll use
Ubuntu
let's use the
Ubuntu initial user uh we can use the
default Network
we do want a public IP address
we will create a new firewall and we use
the SSH key that I have already uploaded
to my cevo account I'll click create
that will take a couple of minutes to
spin up let's look at the firewall here
so right now it's using default default
I just want to make sure that I have
inbound traffic allowed on Port 80.
so I have this Docker test firewall that
I created when setting things up
let's look at the rules
so this is allowing inbound traffic on
all ports let's actually turn that off
we do want to be able to ssh in on 422
we're going to have web traffic coming
in on either Port 80 or 443
uh let's also open up access
for
our two API ports so in this case it
would be Port 3000
and for 8080 for the goaling API
just so we can access those directly
now let's go to our VM and attach this
firewall to it
so instead of default default I want to
attach it to Docker test
and now I want to install Docker engine
on this machine so I will SSH into it
so we created that Ubuntu user it should
be using my SSH key that I already have
set up the first time connecting you
have to accept the fingerprint
and now we are connected to that machine
if I just try to run Docker it doesn't
exist however I know that there's this
install script for Docker engine here at
get.docker.com
so I'm just going to do
curl on that pipe it to Shell
and this will go off and it has
conditions within it to install for
Ubuntu or Debian and so this is a Ubuntu
machine and it should install properly
and so Docker is installed but if I try
to do something like Docker PS I know
I'm unable to connect to the docker
socket I need to change the permissions
of that socket to be accessible by my
current user and so I can do that with
the CH own command
and now if I do Docker PS I'm able to
access docker
so I'm going to exit my SSH session
however I can still connect to that
remote Docker engine by using by using
the docker host environment variable so
I'll export
Docker host and in this case it will be
Ubuntu at
that IP address and now even though I'm
running this command Docker PS on my
laptop it's actually talking to the API
of that remote Docker Daemon we want to
enable swarm mode on that remote VM so
that's as easy as doing Docker swarm
in it
and we now have swarm running on that
remote host
next up we want to take our Docker
compose file that we created in module 8
and update it such that it is ready to
go with swarm
so I'll snag that Docker compose file
copy it over into
module 12.
and so what are the modifications that
we want to make here we could just run
this directly like I was saying however
there's a number of improvements that we
want to make so for a production based
system and let me actually rename it
instead of Docker compose let's call it
docker
swarm
l
there's a number of things we're going
to do first of all we don't need our V
based front end because that was a
development server anyways
so we'll just get rid of that entirely
next up we're not going to be managing
the building of our container images via
swarm so I can get rid of this build
section
and instead
[Applause]
I created a repositories on Docker hub
for each of my images
and I'm going to build and push those
images to that
and so we can see here
I've got my Docker course API golang API
node and client react nginx in order to
build and push my images to those I have
this make Target that is going to
navigate to module 6 and then build
version 5 9 and 8 of the client node and
golang services respectively and so
that's effectively going to go into here
into each of these directories and
execute the build n and push and make
targets
and so if I do that this image that I'll
be using for the front end will be Sid
Palace devops director of Docker course
client react nginx version 5.
e
API node once again will clear out the
build portion and we'll specify to use
the image and this will be Docker course
API node 9 was our final Docker file and
then the final one API golang
will be olang
number eight uh clear out the build
uh we're going to take inbound traffic
on Port 80 and forward that to 8080
because that was that unprivileged nginx
container running on 8080. uh we'll take
traffic from 3000
forward to 3000 8080 on the host go to
8080 in the go land container
let's run this config file using Docker
swarm on that remote host we already
initialized the Swarm in this case
I need to update this IP address
so this was the IP address of the
virtual machine I used when testing now
I'm going to set it to the IP address of
the one I just created
we've already initialized I'm going to
use this uh Docker stack deploy command
and then pass it the name of my swarm
file
so I'll do
make docker
fake swarm deploy stack because I didn't
specify a compose file version in that
file I actually need to do that and so
at the top here I'll specify that this
is version 3.7 let's try it again
and it's warning me that the docker
compose option restart is not supported
by Docker swarm and so I'm just going to
remove those
it will handle restarting our services
slightly differently
and the great thing about something like
Docker swarm is it's declarative so now
I can just redeploy the same stack over
the top and it will reconfigure my
services accordingly
now if I do Docker PS
we can see the four containers that it's
spinning up and let me try to access
them
just at that IP address so the IP
address was 212.
all right and so I now have my
containers running remotely on that
virtual machine using Docker swarm
however there's still some improvements
that we need to make right I talked
about handling of credentials here I'm
still passing in those credentials via
this environment variable so we need to
fix that by using a feature called
secrets
and so generally you would create these
secrets via some other process so you
wouldn't Define it in your config
directly because you don't want to store
those credentials within your git code
base and so I have a make Target that we
can use to create those Secrets it
essentially uses the docker secret
create command pass it a name of the
secret and then here I'm echoing in the
string that will get stored within that
secret
so if I do Docker Secret
list
there's no secrets currently but then if
I run this make Target
and run it again Docker C secret LS
we now have these encrypted Secrets
living on that virtual machine they
contain the information that we care
about so fubarbaz as our password and
then the URL string containing that
information as well
now in order to consume those Secrets
we're going to add another field here at
the bottom
called secrets
the first one is database
URL
and we're going to say external
true and what external true is saying is
that we created this secret already and
Docker swarm doesn't need to manage it
as a part of this stack
we'll do the same for
postgres
password
external
true
great and so now that we've told Docker
swarm about those secrets
we need to
tell the services that are consuming
them to do so
and so what I'll do here is we can tell
this database service
that we want to consume the
postgres password
we no longer need the postgres password
here I will change it I will specify the
postgres user to the postgres
so the way that Secrets get consumed is
as a file mounted into the file system
using a temporary fi a temporary Mount
structure
where that file only exists in memory
and so I needed to adjust my application
slightly whereas previously they were
expecting to read those values from an
environment variable now I'm expecting
to read them from a file and so I need
to tell the application where that file
lives and so in this case that file will
get mounted in to this location
basically under slash run secrets and
then the name of the secret
and so I'm going to tell my application
this is where you should go look and
read in that that password from the file
similarly
we will have
for our
apis something very similar
so we're telling it
we're telling it the path to the file
where that Secret's going to be mounted
in in this case this will be
database
URL
and
there we go and then let me just show
you real quick the modification that I
made to the application so that it can
either read those sensitive read those
Secrets as environment variables or as
files so if we go to our node.js
application
here
Source database and so when I'm
populating this database URL variable I
either load it from the environment or
if that doesn't exist then I read from
the file system at this path that I'm
passing it
very similar on the go Lang side
where when I'm initializing I either get
the database URL directly or if it's
empty then I'll read the file and use
that instead
and so now I can redeploy
using those secrets
now also it takes my swarm config file
and turns that into a stack with many
services in it so I can do make swarm
LS and that's going to list the
different services and we see
that we have
our different replicas here
and they all appear to be running except
for the go Lang one
let's reload our application
and so it looks like our front end is
still working but our apis may not be
so if I Navigate to
and so let's take a look at the logs for
those containers to see what might be
going on
let's look at the node API logs it looks
like we
are refusing to connect
So within the node container I can print
the environment I can see that we have
this database URL file that looks good
what happens if I cap that file out
let's see
okay so it looks like
Within
so it looks like when I tried to use
this dash n option for the echo command
to avoid new lines it actually included
that in my secret file which is what I
didn't want to happen and so I'm
actually going to remove my stack
make swarm
remove stack
so it looks like the dash and I was
using to remove the new line at the end
of the file was actually getting
included in the secret so I'm just going
to use printf instead to make create
secrets
and now let me redeploy my stack
let me make sure that the secret looks
okay within those
within those containers so in this case
let's cap this out
within the
postgres container
that looks good and then within let's
say the go Lane container or no we'll do
it within the node container because the
golang wouldn't have cat within it
[Applause]
okay so that looks much better and now
do my services look healthy
they do and if I go to my IP address and
refresh I can now access my application
again
okay so minor detour there how I was
creating those Secrets there's an issue
with
the
that dash n was making its way into the
secret itself and so I fixed that by
using printf and now the secrets appear
to be working properly
now the next thing that I wanted to do
is to add a an ability to deploy new
versions without bringing down the old
version first and so for that we
actually use the deploy
configuration option
and so for our front end
we will add a deploy section
and within this section there's a few
things we'll add
we'll put it on
replicated mode with a single replica so
we could change this to 10 and it would
spin up 10 copies of our front end but
we just need one for now and then the
key configuration here is update config
we want to start the new container
before we terminate the old container so
that's what this order says you can
actually do stop first if you want to do
the reverse
and so this is how you this deploy
configuration is how you tell Docker
swarm how you want to do rolling updates
we'll have pretty much the same
configuration for our other services as
well
let's make the goaling application have
two replicas just to show how easy that
is to do
and then the final piece of the puzzle
that we wanted to add is health checks
and so we want to have a way for Docker
swarm to know whether our container is
ready or not so that when it's checking
should I bring down the old container is
the new one ready to accept traffic the
way that we do that is via health checks
now the health check config is
relatively straightforward you use the
health check key you give it a test and
in this case we're saying run this
command inside of that container so it's
going to try and curl localhost 8080 and
then I've configured my nginx
configuration so that when you hit the
slash ping route it will just return
pong you then tell it how frequently you
want to issue this health check how long
you want to wait before you consider it
to be timed out and how many tries
before you consider it to be a failure
finally the start period is how long you
expect it to take before the container
is ready from initial boot up before it
needs to do this test
in this case our container image already
had curl built in so there was no
additional changes to the application
that we needed to make
for the API node service we'll have a
very similar health check
I'll add it right here
in this case though we're not going to
be we don't have curl installed into our
container image we wanted to keep our
container image as minimal as possible
we didn't want to have extra utilities
floating around and so in this case I
actually defined a health check in
JavaScript that's going to
be run from within the container and
tell us if the container is healthy or
not
I'll show you what that looks like
so under API node under health check
we're using the HTTP package we say take
it up to two seconds to Ping the slash
ping route on Port 3000 if we get back a
200 code great if we don't
then fail
and so this is what is getting run by
that health check inside the container
every 30 seconds
for golang it will be almost identical
in this case I have a separate binary
that gets compiled in my container image
and so if I look at the application
I have this health check package
within here again I'm just paying
localhost on the route ping I have that
defined in an application to return a
and then in my Docker file when I'm
building my application I build both my
health check as well as
my main.go and so these are two separate
binaries that live in my container image
one of which is the application the
other one gets run by this health check
okay so with those health checks defined
I can now redeploy my swarm stack
and now I can list out those services
we'll see something interesting though
if I do a Docker PS
we now see under the status field see
that these have a status of starting
meaning that it's using that health
check to determine whether or not the
container is healthy or not and until it
is it won't Route traffic to those
containers and it keeps the previous
containers alive such that they can
continue to receive traffic
now that those health checks have
started passing we can see that they've
been up and they are now healthy and so
we should be able to continue to access
our application
with no downtime
and so now whenever we make a change we
would build and push that container
image update our Docker swarm
configuration if needed redeploy
and Docker swarm would be intelligent
enough to use those health checks to
determine when we can Route traffic to
the new containers or not you'll also
see that because I have two replicas
specified in my config we get two
containers both running that golang
image
a couple of other additions that we
could do we could configure our nginx
front end to retrieve a certificate from
let's encrypt for example and store that
in a volume such that it can persist
across container restarts because right
now we're serving traffic on Port 80
over HTTP unencrypted if we go to https
we're not serving on 443 so that doesn't
exist we also can update our DNS
settings for a domain of our choosing
and so for example
we can go to cloudflare
under devops directive I already have
this set up but I'll update it to be the
new IP address and so
we can update this
and that will take a few minutes to
propagate but because I already had the
old one set up we can just navigate to
it directly
and as you can see we're now routing
traffic from that domain to our virtual
machine hitting our application running
within Docker swarm and everything's
behaving as expected
you'll also notice that here I do have
https and now this is a little this is a
bit of a hack because it's using
cloudflare's flexible
TLS and so I have this set up such that
encrypted traffic goes to cloudflare
that's where it terminates TLS and then
it
sends that request unencrypted to the
origin server and so if you're not
dealing with particularly sensitive
information depending on your threat
model this may be sufficient however if
you are dealing with sensitive
information or there's requirements
about the data that you're handling you
would want to terminate TLS on your
system this can be done like I was
saying you could have nginx go off and
get a let's encrypt certificate at its
first startup you also can you can also
handle that kind of at the Ingress layer
for your Docker storm cluster using
something like traffic or another
Ingress controller that can handle that
and so with that we have our application
deployed to a virtual machine running in
the cloud being managed by Docker swarm
we've set it up to use secrets to handle
the credentials properly use health
checks to allow us to have zero downtime
deployments and so
that's great for a single node if you
want to add High availability to your
system or deploy to multiple nodes it
starts to get a bit more complex
especially around how it manages volume
so in this case we have a single volume
for our postgres data on that virtual
machine if we wanted to have a
multi-node cluster we would need to look
at volume plug-ins and how to manage
those how to allow Docker swarm to
manage those across multiple hosts and
so I didn't want to go into that level
of depth in this course if you do want
to dive a bit deeper on Docker swarm
there's a great course from Brett Fisher
called Docker swarm Mastery that I would
suggest you take a look at that'll be a
full Deep dive on how to use swarm
there's a recent reinvigoration of
excitement around swarm They just added
support for what's known as the CSI
container storage interface which is a
standard interface for managing
persistent storage
that is used in kubernetes has a lot of
usage and maturity from that domain
that's now going to get pulled hopefully
back into swarm and make it a viable
option for production deployments moving
forward
as I mentioned this is just one of many
many different options for deploying
containers hopefully this gives you some
ideas but do be on the lookout for the
bonus content around how to use
something like Railway or kubernetes to
deploy the same sample application
and with that we've reached the end of
the course congratulations hopefully you
feel ready to go off and incorporate
containers into your software
development and deployment approaches
and use the lessons you've learned to
improve the software systems within your
organization
to recap everything that we've covered
we started with some fundamentals
exploring why we should even care about
containers in the first place how the
evolution of virtualization brought us
the current state of containers the
underlying Technologies within Linux
that enable containers to work and how
Docker fits into the picture
with that is our base we were then able
to move on to learn how to use
containers we use public third-party
containers for things like databases and
interactive test environments we built
out a multi-service web application
containerized it established a nice
development workflow and then finally
deployed our application to the cloud I
hope that you enjoyed taking this course
as much as I enjoyed making it also if
you'd like to join a community of other
devops practitioners I run a Discord
server with lots of amazing folks where
we talk about this type of thing all the
time and answer each other's questions
there's a link in the description if
you'd like to join if you want more
devops and Docker content YouTube should
be recommending another video over there
that's it for this course and remember
just keep building